Source Code Pro Source Code Pro is a set of OpenType fonts that have been designed to work well in user interface (UI) environments. In addition to a functional OpenType font, this open source project provides all of the source files that were used to build this OpenType font by using the AFDKO makeotf tool. Download the fonts (OTF, TTF, WOFF, WOFF2, EOT) Latest release All releases Font installation instructions macOS Windows Linux/Unix-based systems Homebrew (macOS) brew tap caskroom/fonts && brew cask install font-source-code-pro Bower bower install git://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro.git#release npm 2.x npm install --fetch-only git://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro.git#release npm 3.x npm install git://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro.git#release Building the fonts from source Requirements To build the binary font files from source, you need to have installed the Adobe Font Development Kit for OpenType (AFDKO). The AFDKO tools are widely used for font development today, and are part of most font editor applications. Building one font The key to building OTF or TTF fonts is makeotf, which is part of the AFDKO toolset. Information and usage instructions can be found by executing makeotf -h. In this repository, all necessary files are in place for building the OTF and TTF fonts. For example, build a binary OTF font for the Regular style like this: sh $ cd Roman/Instances/Regular/ $ makeotf -r Building all fonts For convenience, a shell script named build is provided in the root directory. It builds all OTFs and TTFs, and can be executed by typing: sh $ ./build.sh or this on Windows: ```sh build.cmd ``` Getting Involved Send suggestions for changes to the Source Code OpenType font project maintainer, Paul D. Hunt, for consideration. Further information For information about the design and background of Source Code, please refer to the official font readme file.