Snap.svg · A JavaScript SVG library for the modern web. Learn more at snapsvg.io. Follow us on Twitter. Install Bower - bower install snap.svg npm - npm install snapsvg Manual Minified - https://github.com/adobe-webplatform/Snap.svg/raw/master/dist/snap.svg-min.js Manual Unminified - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adobe-webplatform/Snap.svg/master/dist/snap.svg.js Learn About Snap.svg Getting Started API Reference Slack Room. Invite Use In your HTML file, load simply by: html <script src="snap.svg-min.js"></script> No other scripts are needed. Both the minified and uncompressed (for development) versions are in the /dist folder. webpack To load with webpack 2.x and 3.x, install Imports Loader (npm i -D imports-loader), and add the following to your webpack config: js module: { rules: [ { test: require.resolve(snapsvg/dist/snap.svg.js), use: imports-loader?this=>window,fix=>module.exports=0, }, ], }, resolve: { alias: { snapsvg: snapsvg/dist/snap.svg.js, }, }, Then, in any module youd like to require Snap, use: import Snap from snapsvg; Build Snap.svg uses Grunt to build. Open the terminal from the Snap.svg directory: sh cd Snap.svg Install its command line interface (CLI) globally: sh npm install -g grunt-cli *You might need to use sudo npm, depending on your configuration. Install dependencies with npm: sh npm install *Snap.svg uses Grunt 0.4.0. You might want to read more on their website if you havent upgraded since a lot has changed. To build the files run sh grunt The results will be built into the dist folder. Alternatively type grunt watch to have the build run automatically when you make changes to source files. Testing Tests are located in test folder. To run tests, simply open test.html in there. Automatic tests use PhantomJS to scrap this file, so you can use it as a reference. Alternatively, install PhantomJS and run command sh grunt test Contribute Fill out the CLA. Fork the repo. Create a branch: sh git checkout -b my_branch Add your changes. Check that tests are passing Commit your changes: sh git commit -am "Added some awesome stuff" Push your branch: sh git push origin my_branch Make a pull request to dev(!) branch. Note: Pull requests to other branches than dev or without filled CLA wouldnt be accepted.