Ive received a notice to cease and desist from Niantic Labs, and Ive decided to comply with their requests. It was my intention to augment and improve the game experience of Pokemon Go, and we achieved just that! Without their blessing, I dont see myself having the motivation to continue this project. It grew from a 2 hour weekend project to a robust 2-click server ready-for-deployment in a matter of days. The project has inspired \~5 million views (500k uniques), 44k clones, 9.6k stars, 160 contributors, translation into 10 languages, and a wonderful community all in the span of 2 weeks. Its also been featured on The Verge, Arstechnica, Lifehacker, Stern.de, Business Insider, and many others. What was most exciting was seeing the hundreds of online community-run maps in towns and cities across the world. Some coffee shops even hosted copies for their own customers! Its been my pleasure to get to know each of you guys: the core development team, the contributors, and the thousands that have gotten in touch with me! Niantic, my offer still stands to help you build an official game map! -Ahmed Almutawa Edit: Thank you all for the kind words and offers of help! Id like to clarify that the main reason I chose to shut it down was because Ive lost interest rather than legal concerns. Niantics actions towards 3rd party developers have been very off-putting and it has killed my personal motivation to work on this project. This was a fun weekend project for a game I enjoyed, and now Ive lost interest in both. I wont resume development, but there are active forks of this project you could use.