Enzyme Enzyme is a JavaScript Testing utility for React that makes it easier to assert, manipulate, and traverse your React Components output. Enzymes API is meant to be intuitive and flexible by mimicking jQuerys API for DOM manipulation and traversal. Upgrading from Enzyme 2.x or React < 16 Are you here to check whether or not Enzyme is compatible with React 16? Are you currently using Enzyme 2.x? Great! Check out our migration guide for help moving on to Enzyme v3 where React 16 is supported. Installation To get started with enzyme, you can simply install it via npm. You will need to install enzyme along with an Adapter corresponding to the version of react (or other UI Component library) you are using. For instance, if you are using enzyme with React 16, you can run: bash npm i --save-dev enzyme enzyme-adapter-react-16 Each adapter may have additional peer dependencies which you will need to install as well. For instance, enzyme-adapter-react-16 has peer dependencies on react and react-dom. At the moment, Enzyme has adapters that provide compatibility with React 16.x, React 15.x, React 0.14.x and React 0.13.x. The following adapters are officially provided by enzyme, and have the following compatibility with React: | Enzyme Adapter Package | React semver compatibility | | --- | --- | | enzyme-adapter-react-16 | ^16.0.0 | | enzyme-adapter-react-15 | ^15.5.0 | | enzyme-adapter-react-15.4 | 15.0.0-0 - 15.4.x | | enzyme-adapter-react-14 | ^0.14.0 | | enzyme-adapter-react-13 | ^0.13.0 | Finally, you need to configure enzyme to use the adapter you want it to use. To do this, you can use the top level configure(...) API. ```js import Enzyme from enzyme; import Adapter from enzyme-adapter-react-16; Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() }); ``` 3rd Party Adapters It is possible for the community to create additional (non-official) adapters that will make enzyme work with other libraries. If you have made one and its not included in the list below, feel free to make a PR to this README and add a link to it! The known 3rd party adapters are: | Adapter Package | For Library | Status | | --- | --- | --- | | preact-enzyme-adapter | preact | (work in progress) | |enzyme-adapter-inferno|inferno|(work in progress)| Running Enzyme Tests Enzyme is unopinionated regarding which test runner or assertion library you use, and should be compatible with all major test runners and assertion libraries out there. The documentation and examples for enzyme use mocha and chai, but you should be able to extrapolate to your framework of choice. If you are interested in using enzyme with custom assertions and convenience functions for testing your React components, you can consider using: chai-enzyme with Mocha/Chai. jasmine-enzyme with Jasmine. jest-enzyme with Jest. should-enzyme for should.js. expect-enzyme for expect. Using Enzyme with Mocha Using Enzyme with Karma Using Enzyme with Browserify Using Enzyme with SystemJS Using Enzyme with WebPack Using Enzyme with JSDOM Using Enzyme with React Native Using Enzyme with Jest Using Enzyme with Lab Using Enzyme with Tape and AVA Basic Usage Shallow Rendering ```javascript import React from react; import { expect } from chai; import { shallow } from enzyme; import sinon from sinon; import MyComponent from ./MyComponent; import Foo from ./Foo; describe(, () => { it(renders three components, () => { const wrapper = shallow(); expect(wrapper.find(Foo)).to.have.length(3); }); it(renders an .icon-star, () => { const wrapper = shallow(); expect(wrapper.find(.icon-star)).to.have.length(1); }); it(renders children when passed in, () => { const wrapper = shallow(( )); expect(wrapper.contains()).to.equal(true); }); it(simulates click events, () => { const onButtonClick = sinon.spy(); const wrapper = shallow(); wrapper.find(button).simulate(click); expect(onButtonClick).to.have.property(callCount, 1); }); }); ``` Read the full API Documentation Full DOM Rendering ```javascript import React from react; import sinon from sinon; import { expect } from chai; import { mount } from enzyme; import Foo from ./Foo; describe(, () => { it(allows us to set props, () => { const wrapper = mount(); expect(wrapper.props().bar).to.equal(baz); wrapper.setProps({ bar: foo }); expect(wrapper.props().bar).to.equal(foo); }); it(simulates click events, () => { const onButtonClick = sinon.spy(); const wrapper = mount(( )); wrapper.find(button).simulate(click); expect(onButtonClick).to.have.property(callCount, 1); }); it(calls componentDidMount, () => { sinon.spy(Foo.prototype, componentDidMount); const wrapper = mount(); expect(Foo.prototype.componentDidMount).to.have.property(callCount, 1); Foo.prototype.componentDidMount.restore(); }); }); ``` Read the full API Documentation Static Rendered Markup ```javascript import React from react; import { expect } from chai; import { render } from enzyme; import Foo from ./Foo; describe(, () => { it(renders three .foo-bars, () => { const wrapper = render(); expect(wrapper.find(.foo-bar).length).to.equal(3); }); it(renders the title, () => { const wrapper = render(); expect(wrapper.text()).to.contain(unique); }); }); ``` Read the full API Documentation Future Enzyme Future Contributing See the Contributors Guide In the wild Organizations and projects using enzyme can list themselves here. License MIT