React Native Router v4.x Follow author @PAksonov NOTE: v4 based on React Navigation v1.5.6. See this branch and docs for v3 based on deprecated React Native Experimental Navigation API. It is not supported and may not work with latest React Native versions. Example Motivation v4 Features API Migrating from v3 Sponsors/Backers/Contributors Define all your routes in one React component... js const App = () => ( <Router> <Stack key="root"> <Scene key="login" component={Login} title="Login"/> <Scene key="register" component={Register} title="Register"/> <Scene key="home" component={Home}/> </Stack> </Router> ); ...and navigate from scene to scene with a simple, powerful API ```js // Login.js // navigate to home as defined in your top-level router Actions.home(PARAMS) // go back (i.e. pop the current screen off the nav stack) Actions.pop() // refresh the current Scene with the specified props Actions.refresh({param1: hello, param2: world}) ``` Try the example app ```bash Get the code git clone https://github.com/aksonov/react-native-router-flux.git cd react-native-router-flux/Example Install dependencies yarn Run it react-native run-ios ``` v4 Features Based on latest React Navigation API Separate navigation logic from presentation. You may change now navigation state directly from your business logic code - stores/reducers/etc. navigationStore Built-in state machine (v3 Switch replacement) Each Scene with component defined can have onEnter/onExit/on handlers. onEnter/on handler can be async. For truthy return of onEnter/on, success handler (if defined) will be executed if success is a string then router will navigate to the Scene with that key in case of handlers failure, failure prop (if defined) will be run. Combining onEnter, onExit, success, and failure makes patterns like authentication, data validation, and conditional transitions simple and intuitive. MobX-friendly: all scenes are wrapped with observer. You may subscribe to navigationStore (Actions in v3) and observe current navigation state. Not applicable to Redux. Flexible nav bar customization not currently allowed by React Navigation: https://github.com/react-community/react-navigation/issues/779 Drawer support (provided by React Navigation) Inheritance of scene attributes allow you to avoid any code/attribute duplications. Adding rightTitle to a scene will apply to all child scenes. See example app. Access to your app navigations state as simple as Actions.state. Use Actions.currentScene to get name of current scene. Contributors This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [Contribute]. Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [Become a backer] Sponsors Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [Become a sponsor]