Alcatraz is an open-source package manager for Xcode 7. It lets you discover and install plugins, templates and color schemes without the need for manually cloning or copying files. It installs itself as a part of Xcode and it feels like home. Please note that plugins are not supported by Xcode 8. See #475 for more information. Installation To install, open up your terminal and paste this: bash curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/alcatraz/Alcatraz/master/Scripts/install.sh | sh or download the repository from Github and build it in Xcode. Youll need to restart Xcode after the installation. Alcatraz requires Xcode Command Line Tools, which can be installed in Xcode via Preferences > Downloads. Requirements Alcatraz only supports Xcode 7. Usage Select Package Manager from the Window menu, then check or uncheck packages to install or remove them. Youll need to restart Xcode after installing plugins or templates. Installed plugins are checked and updated each time Alcatraz is launched. I want to submit my package! Fork the Alcatraz package repository and include your package with name, description, URL, and optional screenshot. Dont forget to submit a pull request. Further instructions are included in the package repository documentation. Development Alcatraz has a few contribution guidelines, for anyone looking to make it more awesome. Troubleshooting If "nothing" happens when installing packages, try the following self-help steps: Verify which copy (if more than one are installed) of git is being run (which git). Make sure youre running a recent version of git (git --version). If youve used Xcode developer preview releases in the past, make certain Xcode isnt stuck using an inappropriate developer path by resetting it (sudo xcode-select --reset). Uninstall Open up your terminal and paste this: bash rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Developer/Shared/Xcode/Plug-ins/Alcatraz.xcplugin To remove all packages installed via Alcatraz, run rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Alcatraz/ Team Marin Usalj (@supermarin) Delisa Mason (@kattrali) Jurre Stender (@jurre) Guillaume Algis (@guillaume-algis)