AndFix AndFix is a solution to fix the bugs online instead of redistributing Android App. It is distributed as Android Library. Andfix is an acronym for "Android hot-fix". AndFix supports Android version from 2.3 to 7.0, both ARM and X86 architecture, both Dalvik and ART runtime, both 32bit and 64bit. The compressed file format of AndFixs patch is .apatch. It is dispatched from your own server to client to fix your Apps bugs. Principle The implementation principle of AndFix is method bodys replacing, Method replacing AndFix judges the methods should be replaced by java custom annotation and replaces it by hooking it. AndFix has a native method art_replaceMethod in ART or dalvik_replaceMethod in Dalvik. For more details, here. Fix Process Integration How to get? Directly add AndFix aar to your project as compile libraries. For your maven dependency, xml <dependency> <groupId>com.alipay.euler</groupId> <artifactId>andfix</artifactId> <version>0.5.0</version> <type>aar</type> </dependency> For your gradle dependency, groovy dependencies { compile com.alipay.euler:andfix:0.5.0@aar } How to use? Initialize PatchManager, java patchManager = new PatchManager(context); patchManager.init(appversion);//current version Load patch, java patchManager.loadPatch(); You should load patch as early as possible, generally, in the initialization phase of your application(such as Application.onCreate()). Add patch, java patchManager.addPatch(path);//path of the patch file that was downloaded When a new patch file has been downloaded, it will become effective immediately by addPatch. Developer Tool AndFix provides a patch-making tool called apkpatch. How to get? The apkpatch tool can be found here. How to use? Prepare two android packages, one is the online package, the other one is the package after you fix bugs by coding. Generate .apatch file by providing the two package, usage: apkpatch -f <new> -t <old> -o <output> -k <keystore> -p <***> -a <alias> -e <***> -a,--alias <alias> keystore entry alias. -e,--epassword <***> keystore entry password. -f,--from <loc> new Apk file path. -k,--keystore <loc> keystore path. -n,--name <name> patch name. -o,--out <dir> output dir. -p,--kpassword <***> keystore password. -t,--to <loc> old Apk file path. Now you get the application savior, the patch file. Then you need to dispatch it to your client in some way, push or pull. Sometimes, your team members may fix each others bugs, and generate not only one .apatch. For this situation, you can merge .apatch files using this tool, usage: apkpatch -m <apatch_path...> -o <output> -k <keystore> -p <***> -a <alias> -e <***> -a,--alias <alias> keystore entry alias. -e,--epassword <***> keystore entry password. -k,--keystore <loc> keystore path. -m,--merge <loc...> path of .apatch files. -n,--name <name> patch name. -o,--out <dir> output dir. -p,--kpassword <***> keystore password. Running sample Import samplesI/AndFixDemo to your IDE, append AndFixDemo dependencies with AndFix(library project or aar). Build project, save the package as 1.apk, and then install on device/emulator. Modify com.euler.test.A, references com.euler.test.Fix. Build project, save the package as 2.apk. Use apkpatch tool to make a patch. Rename the patch file to out.apatch, and then copy it to sdcard. Run 1.apk and view log. Notice ProGuard If you enable ProGuard, you must save the mapping.txt, so your new versions build can use it with "-applymapping". And it is necessary to keep classes as follow, Native method com.alipay.euler.andfix.AndFix Annotation com.alipay.euler.andfix.annotation.MethodReplace To ensure that these classes can be found after running an obfuscation and static analysis tool like ProGuard, add the configuration below to your ProGuard configuration file. -keep class * extends java.lang.annotation.Annotation -keepclasseswithmembernames class * { native <methods>; } Self-Modifying Code If you use it, such as Bangcle. To generate patch file, youd better to use raw apk. Security The following is important but out of AndFixs range. verify the signature of patch file verify the fingerprint of optimize file API Documentation The libraries javadoc can be found here. Contact ... License Apache License, Version 2.0 Copyright (c) 2015, alipay.com