CSS Protips A collection of tips to help take your CSS skills pro. For other great lists check out @sindresorhuss curated list of awesome lists. Table of Contents Protips Support Translations Contribution Guidelines Protips Use a CSS Reset Inherit box-sizing Use unset Instead of Resetting All Properties Use :not() to Apply/Unapply Borders on Navigation Add line-height to body Vertically-Center Anything Comma-Separated Lists Select Items Using Negative nth-child Use SVG for Icons Use the "Lobotomized Owl" Selector Use max-height for Pure CSS Sliders Equal-Width Table Cells Get Rid of Margin Hacks With Flexbox Use Attribute Selectors with Empty Links Style "Default" Links Consistent Vertical Rhythm Intrinsic Ratio Boxes Style Broken Images Use rem for Global Sizing; Use em for Local Sizing Hide Autoplay Videos That Arent Muted Use :root for Flexible Type Set font-size on Form Elements for a Better Mobile Experience Use Pointer Events to Control Mouse Events Use a CSS Reset CSS resets help enforce style consistency across different browsers with a clean slate for styling elements. You can use a CSS reset library like Normalize, et al., or you can use a more simplified reset approach: css * { box-sizing: border-box; margin: 0; padding: 0; } Now elements will be stripped of margins and padding, and box-sizing lets you manage layouts with the CSS box model. Demo Note: If you follow the Inherit box-sizing tip below you might opt to not include the box-sizing property in your CSS reset. back to table of contents Inherit box-sizing Let box-sizing be inherited from html: ```css html { box-sizing: border-box; } , ::before, *::after { box-sizing: inherit; } ``` This makes it easier to change box-sizing in plugins or other components that leverage other behavior. back to table of contents Use unset Instead of Resetting All Properties When resetting an elements properties, its not necessary to reset each individual property: css button { background: none; border: none; color: inherit; font: inherit; outline: none; padding: 0; } You can specify all of an elements properties using the all shorthand. Setting the value to unset changes an elements properties to their initial values: css button { all: unset; } Note: the all shorthand isnt supported in IE11 and is currently under consideration for support in Edge. unset isnt supported in IE11. back to table of contents Use :not() to Apply/Unapply Borders on Navigation Instead of putting on the border... css /* add border */ .nav li { border-right: 1px solid #666; } ...and then taking it off the last element... css /* remove border */ .nav li:last-child { border-right: none; } ...use the :not() pseudo-class to only apply to the elements you want: css .nav li:not(:last-child) { border-right: 1px solid #666; } Sure, you can use .nav li + li, but with :not() the intent is very clear and the CSS selector defines the border the way a human would describe it. Demo back to table of contents Add line-height to body You dont need to add line-height to each <p>, <h*>, et al. separately. Instead, add it to body: css body { line-height: 1.5; } This way textual elements can inherit from body easily. Demo back to table of contents Vertically-Center Anything No, its not black magic, you really can center elements vertically. You can do this with flexbox... ```css html, body { height: 100%; margin: 0; } body { -webkit-align-items: center; -ms-flex-align: center; align-items: center; display: -webkit-flex; display: flex; } ``` ...and also with CSS Grid: css body { display: grid; height: 100vh; margin: 0; place-items: center center; } Want to center something else? Vertically, horizontally...anything, anytime, anywhere? CSS-Tricks has a nice write-up on doing all of that. Note: Watch for some buggy behavior with flexbox in IE11. Demo back to table of contents Comma-Separated Lists Make list items look like a real, comma-separated list: css ul > li:not(:last-child)::after { content: ","; } Use the :not() pseudo-class and no comma will be added to the last item. Note: This tip may not be ideal for accessibility, specifically screen readers. And copy/paste from the browser doesnt work with CSS-generated content. Proceed with caution. back to table of contents Select Items Using Negative nth-child Use negative nth-child in CSS to select items 1 through n. ```css li { display: none; } / select items 1 through 3 and display them / li:nth-child(-n+3) { display: block; } ``` Or, since youve already learned a little about using :not(), try: css /* select all items except the first 3 and display them */ li:not(:nth-child(-n+3)) { display: block; } Demo back to table of contents Use SVG for Icons Theres no reason not to use SVG for icons: css .logo { background: url("logo.svg"); } SVG scales well for all resolution types and is supported in all browsers back to IE9. Ditch your .png, .jpg, or .gif-jif-whatev files. Note: If you have SVG icon-only buttons for sighted users and the SVG fails to load, this will help maintain accessibility: css .no-svg .icon-only::after { content: attr(aria-label); } back to table of contents Use the "Lobotomized Owl" Selector It may have a strange name but using the universal selector (*) with the adjacent sibling selector (+) can provide a powerful CSS capability: css * + * { margin-top: 1.5em; } In this example, all elements in the flow of the document that follow other elements will receive margin-top: 1.5em. For more on the "lobotomized owl" selector, read Heydon Pickerings post on A List Apart. Demo back to table of contents Use max-height for Pure CSS Sliders Implement CSS-only sliders using max-height with overflow hidden: ```css .slider { max-height: 200px; overflow-y: hidden; width: 300px; } .slider:hover { max-height: 600px; overflow-y: scroll; } ``` The element expands to the max-height value on hover and the slider displays as a result of the overflow. back to table of contents Equal-Width Table Cells Tables can be a pain to work with. Try using table-layout: fixed to keep cells at equal width: css .calendar { table-layout: fixed; } Pain-free table layouts. Demo back to table of contents Get Rid of Margin Hacks With Flexbox When working with column gutters you can get rid of nth-, first-, and last-child hacks by using flexboxs space-between property: ```css .list { display: flex; justify-content: space-between; } .list .person { flex-basis: 23%; } ``` Now column gutters always appear evenly-spaced. back to table of contents Use Attribute Selectors with Empty Links Display links when the <a> element has no text value but the href attribute has a link: css a[href^="http"]:empty::before { content: attr(href); } Thats pretty convenient. Demo back to table of contents Style "Default" Links Add a style for "default" links: css a[href]:not([class]) { color: #008000; text-decoration: underline; } Now links that are inserted via a CMS, which dont usually have a class attribute, will have a distinction without generically affecting the cascade. back to table of contents Consistent Vertical Rhythm Use a universal selector (*) within an element to create a consistent vertical rhythm: css .intro > * { margin-bottom: 1.25rem; } Consistent vertical rhythm provides a visual aesthetic that makes content far more readable. back to table of contents Intrinsic Ratio Boxes To create a box with an intrinsic ratio, all you need to do is apply top or bottom padding to a div: ```css .container { height: 0; padding-bottom: 20%; position: relative; } .container div { border: 2px dashed #ddd; height: 100%; left: 0; position: absolute; top: 0; width: 100%; } ``` Using 20% for padding makes the height of the box equal to 20% of its width. No matter the width of the viewport, the child div will keep its aspect ratio (100% / 20% = 5:1). Demo back to table of contents Style Broken Images Make broken images more aesthetically-pleasing with a little bit of CSS: css img { display: block; font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-weight: 300; height: auto; line-height: 2; position: relative; text-align: center; width: 100%; } Now add pseudo-elements rules to display a user message and URL reference of the broken image: ```css img::before { content: "Were sorry, the image below is broken :("; display: block; margin-bottom: 10px; } img::after { content: "(url: " attr(src) ")"; display: block; font-size: 12px; } ``` Learn more about styling for this pattern in Ire Aderinokuns original post. back to table of contents Use rem for Global Sizing; Use em for Local Sizing After setting the base font size at the root (html { font-size: 100%; }), set the font size for textual elements to em: ```css h2 { font-size: 2em; } p { font-size: 1em; } ``` Then set the font-size for modules to rem: ```css article { font-size: 1.25rem; } aside .module { font-size: .9rem; } ``` Now each module becomes compartmentalized and easier to style, more maintainable, and flexible. back to table of contents Hide Autoplay Videos That Arent Muted This is a great trick for a custom user stylesheet. Avoid overloading a user with sound from a video that autoplays when the page is loaded. If the sound isnt muted, dont show the video: css video[autoplay]:not([muted]) { display: none; } Once again, were taking advantage of using the :not() pseudo-class. back to table of contents Use :root for Flexible Type The type font size in a responsive layout should be able to adjust with each viewport. You can calculate the font size based on the viewport height and width using :root: css :root { font-size: calc(1vw + 1vh + .5vmin); } Now you can utilize the root em unit based on the value calculated by :root: css body { font: 1rem/1.6 sans-serif; } Demo back to table of contents Set font-size on Form Elements for a Better Mobile Experience To avoid mobile browsers (iOS Safari, et al.) from zooming in on HTML form elements when a <select> drop-down is tapped, add font-size to the selector rule: css input[type="text"], input[type="number"], select, textarea { font-size: 16px; } :dancer: back to table of contents Use Pointer Events to Control Mouse Events Pointer events allow you to specifiy how the mouse interacts with the element its touching. To disable the default pointer event on a button, for instance: css .button-disabled { opacity: .5; pointer-events: none; } Its that simple. back to table of contents Support Current versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Edge, and IE11. back to table of contents Translations 简体中文 正體中文 Deutsche Español Français ગુજરાતી Italiano 日本語 한국어 Polskie Português do Brasil Português do Europe Русский back to table of contents