Introduction AdminLTE -- is a fully responsive admin template. Based on Bootstrap 3 framework. Highly customizable and easy to use. Fits many screen resolutions from small mobile devices to large desktops. Check out the live preview now and see for yourself. Download & Preview on AdminLTE.IO Looking for Premium Templates? AdminLTE.IO just opened a new premium templates website. Hand picked to ensure the best quality and the most affordable prices. Visit https://themequarry.com for more information. Documentation & Installation Guide Visit the online documentation for the most updated guide. Contribution Contribution are always welcome and recommended! Here is how: Fork the repository (here is the guide). Clone to your machine git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/AdminLTE.git Make your changes Create a pull request Contribution Requirements: When you contribute, you agree to give a non-exclusive license to AdminLTE.IO to use that contribution in any context as we (AdminLTE.IO) see appropriate. If you use content provided by another party, it must be appropriately licensed using an open source license. Contributions are only accepted through Github pull requests. Finally, contributed code must work in all supported browsers (see above for browser support). License AdminLTE is an open source project by AdminLTE.IO that is licensed under MIT. AdminLTE.IO reserves the right to change the license of future releases. Wondering what you can or cant do? View the license guide. Legacy Releases AdminLTE 1.x can be easily upgraded to 2.x using this guide, but if you intend to keep using AdminLTE 1.x, you can download the latest release from the releases section above. Change log For the most recent change log, visit the releases page or the changelog file. We will add detailed release notes to each new release. Image Credits Pixeden Graphicsfuel Pickaface Unsplash Uifaces Donations Donations are greatly appreciated!