The Ultimate vimrc Over the last 10 years, I have used and tweaked Vim. This configuration is the ultimate vimrc (or at least my version of it). There are two versions: The Basic: If you want something small just copy basic.vim into your ~/.vimrc and you will have a good basic setup The Awesome: Includes a ton of useful plugins, color schemes, and configurations I would, of course, recommend using the awesome version. How to install the Awesome version? Install for your own user only The awesome version includes a lot of great plugins, configurations and color schemes that make Vim a lot better. To install it simply do following from your terminal: git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git ~/.vim_runtime sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_vimrc.sh Install for multiple users To install for multiple users, the repository needs to be cloned to a location accessible for all the intended users. git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git /opt/vim_runtime sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_parameterized.sh /opt/vim_runtime user0 user1 user2 # to install for all users with home directories sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_parameterized.sh /opt/vim_runtime --all Naturally, /opt/vim_runtime can be any directory, as long as all the users specified have read access. Fonts I recommend using IBM Plex Mono font (its an open-source and awesome font that can make your code beautiful). The Awesome vimrc is already setup to try to use it. Some other fonts that Awesome will try to use: Hack Source Code Pro How to install the Basic version? The basic version is just one file and no plugins. Just copy basic.vim and paste it into your vimrc. The basic version is useful to install on remote servers where you dont need many plugins, and you dont do many edits. git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git ~/.vim_runtime sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_basic_vimrc.sh How to install on Windows? Use gitforwindows to checkout the repository and run the installation instructions above. No special instructions needed ;-) How to install on Linux If you have vim aliased as vi instead of vim, make sure to either alias it: alias vi=vim. Otherwise, apt-get install vim How to update to latest version? Just do a git rebase! cd ~/.vim_runtime git pull --rebase Some screenshots Colors when editing a Python file: Opening recently opened files with the mru.vim plugin: NERD Tree plugin in a terminal window: Distraction free mode using goyo.vim and vim-zenroom2: Included Plugins I recommend reading the docs of these plugins to understand them better. Each plugin provides a much better Vim experience! ack.vim: Vim plugin for the_silver_searcher (ag) or ack -- a wicked fast grep bufexplorer.zip: Quickly and easily switch between buffers. This plugin can be opened with <leader+o> ctrlp.vim: Fuzzy file, buffer, mru and tag finder. Its mapped to <Ctrl+F> goyo.vim and vim-zenroom2: lightline.vim: A light and configurable statusline/tabline for Vim NERD Tree: A tree explorer plugin for vim mru.vim: Plugin to manage Most Recently Used (MRU) files. This plugin can be opened with <leader+f> open_file_under_cursor.vim: Open file under cursor when pressing gf pathogen.vim: Manage your vim runtimepath snipmate.vim: snipmate.vim aims to be a concise vim script that implements some of TextMates snippets features in Vim ale: Syntax and lint checking for vim (async) vim-commentary: Comment stuff out. Use gcc to comment out a line (takes a count), gc to comment out the target of a motion. gcu uncomments a set of adjacent commented lines. vim-expand-region: Allows you to visually select increasingly larger regions of text using the same key combination vim-fugitive: A Git wrapper so awesome, it should be illegal vim-indent-object: Defines a new text object representing lines of code at the same indent level. Useful for python/vim scripts vim-multiple-cursors: Sublime Text style multiple selections for Vim, CTRL+N is remapped to CTRL+S (due to YankRing) vim-yankstack: Maintains a history of previous yanks, changes and deletes vim-zenroom2 Remove all clutter and focus only on the essential. Similar to iA Writer or Write Room Included color schemes peaksea: The default vim-colors-solarized vim-irblack mayansmoke vim-pyte Included modes vim-coffee-script vim-less vim-bundle-mako vim-markdown nginx.vim: Highlights configuration files for nginx vim-go How to include your own stuff? After you have installed the setup, you can create ~/.vim_runtime/my_configs.vim to fill in any configurations that are important for you. For instance, my my_configs.vim looks like this: ~/.vim_runtime (master)> cat my_configs.vim map <leader>ct :cd ~/Desktop/Todoist/todoist<cr> map <leader>cw :cd ~/Desktop/Wedoist/wedoist<cr> You can also install your plugins, for instance, via pathogen you can install vim-rails: cd ~/.vim_runtime git clone git://github.com/tpope/vim-rails.git my_plugins/vim-rails Key Mappings The leader is ,, so whenever you see <leader> it means ,. Plugin related mappings Open bufexplorer to see and manage the current buffers (<leader>o): map <leader>o :BufExplorer<cr> Open MRU.vim to see the recently open files (<leader>f): map <leader>f :MRU<CR> Open ctrlp.vim plugin to quickly find a file or a buffer (<leader>j or <ctrl>f): let g:ctrlp_map = <c-f> NERD Tree mappings: map <leader>nn :NERDTreeToggle<cr> map <leader>nb :NERDTreeFromBookmark map <leader>nf :NERDTreeFind<cr> goyo.vim and vim-zenroom2 lets you only focus on one thing at a time. It removes all the distractions and centers the content. It has a special look when editing Markdown, reStructuredText and textfiles. It only has one mapping. (<leader>z) map <leader>z :Goyo<cr> Normal mode mappings Fast saving of a buffer (<leader>w): nmap <leader>w :w!<cr> Map <Space> to / (search) and <Ctrl>+<Space> to ? (backwards search): map <space> / map <c-space> ? map <silent> <leader><cr> :noh<cr> Disable highlights when you press <leader><cr>: map <silent> <leader><cr> :noh<cr> Smart way to move between windows (<ctrl>j etc.): map <C-j> <C-W>j map <C-k> <C-W>k map <C-h> <C-W>h map <C-l> <C-W>l Closing of the current buffer(s) (<leader>bd and (<leader>ba)): " Close current buffer map <leader>bd :Bclose<cr> " Close all buffers map <leader>ba :1,1000 bd!<cr> Useful mappings for managing tabs: map <leader>tn :tabnew<cr> map <leader>to :tabonly<cr> map <leader>tc :tabclose<cr> map <leader>tm :tabmove " Opens a new tab with the current buffers path " Super useful when editing files in the same directory map <leader>te :tabedit <c-r>=expand("%:p:h")<cr>/ Switch CWD to the directory of the open buffer: map <leader>cd :cd %:p:h<cr>:pwd<cr> Open ack.vim for fast search: map <leader>g :Ack Quickly open a buffer for scripbble: map <leader>q :e ~/buffer<cr> Toggle paste mode on and off: map <leader>pp :setlocal paste!<cr> Visual mode mappings Visual mode pressing * or # searches for the current selection: vnoremap <silent> * :call VisualSelection(f)<CR> vnoremap <silent> # :call VisualSelection(b)<CR> When you press gv you Ack.vim after the selected text: vnoremap <silent> gv :call VisualSelection(gv, )<CR> When you press <leader>r you can search and replace the selected text: vnoremap <silent> <leader>r :call VisualSelection(replace)<CR> Surround the visual selection in parenthesis/brackets/etc.: vnoremap $1 <esc>`>a)<esc>`<i(<esc> vnoremap $2 <esc>`>a]<esc>`<i[<esc> vnoremap $3 <esc>`>a}<esc>`<i{<esc> vnoremap $$ <esc>`>a"<esc>`<i"<esc> vnoremap $q <esc>`>a<esc>`<i<esc> vnoremap $e <esc>`>a"<esc>`<i"<esc> Insert mode mappings Quickly insert parenthesis/brackets/etc.: inoremap $1 ()<esc>i inoremap $2 []<esc>i inoremap $3 {}<esc>i inoremap $4 {<esc>o}<esc>O inoremap $q <esc>i inoremap $e ""<esc>i inoremap $t <><esc>i Insert the current date and time (useful for timestamps): iab xdate <c-r>=strftime("%d/%m/%y %H:%M:%S")<cr> Command line mappings $q is super useful when browsing on the command line. It deletes everything until the last slash: cno $q <C-\>eDeleteTillSlash()<cr> Bash like keys for the command line: cnoremap <C-A> <Home> cnoremap <C-E> <End> cnoremap <C-K> <C-U> cnoremap <C-P> <Up> cnoremap <C-N> <Down> Write the file as sudo (works only on Unix). Super useful when you open a file and you dont have permissions to save your changes. Vim tip: :W Spell checking Pressing <leader>ss will toggle spell checking: map <leader>ss :setlocal spell!<cr> Shortcuts using <leader> instead of special characters: map <leader>sn ]s map <leader>sp [s map <leader>sa zg map <leader>s? z= Cope Query :help cope if you are unsure what cope is. Its super useful! When you search with Ack.vim, display your results in cope by doing: <leader>cc To go to the next search result do: <leader>n To go to the previous search results do: <leader>p Cope mappings: map <leader>cc :botright cope<cr> map <leader>co ggVGy:tabnew<cr>:set syntax=qf<cr>pgg map <leader>n :cn<cr> map <leader>p :cp<cr> How to uninstall Just do following: Remove ~/.vim_runtime Remove any lines that reference .vim_runtime in your ~/.vimrc