⚡⚡⚡ The first AMP Contributor Summit for developers who contribute to the AMP open source project--or who want to start contributing--will be in San Francisco, California September 25-26, 2018 with an optional New Contributor Day on September 24. If you are a contributor to AMP or you want to become one please apply to attend! If youd like to give a talk at the summit please submit a talk proposal by July 31, 2018. Please note, that this is a technical summit. Dont worry that your talk might not be polished enough. Were excited to hear from everyone! ⚡⚡⚡ AMP HTML ⚡ AMP HTML is a way to build web pages that render with reliable and fast performance. It is our attempt at fixing what many perceive as painfully slow page load times – especially when reading content on the mobile web. AMP HTML is built on existing web technologies; an AMP page will load (quickly) in any modern browser. You can learn more at ampproject.org including what AMP is, how it works and the importance of validation in AMP. You can also walk through creating an AMP page and read through the reference docs. Wed love your help making AMP better! There are a lot of ways you can contribute to making AMP better! You can report bugs and feature requests or ideally become an ongoing participant in the AMP Project community and contribute code to the open source project. We enthusiastically welcome new contributors to the AMP Project even if you have no experience being part of an open source project. Weve got some tips for new contributors and guides to getting started (both a detailed version and a TL;DR). If youre new to contributing to the AMP open source project, sign up for our Slack and say "Hi!" in the appropriately named #welcome-contributors channel ❤️️. Using AMP on your site If you are using AMP on your site, check out the docs on ampproject.org, samples on ampbyexample.com and templates on ampstart.com. The best place to get help with questions about using AMP on your site is Stack Overflow. Youll find answers to many common questions there. In the event your question hasnt already been answered you can post a new one, and one of the many people who are knowledgeable about AMP and who monitor Stack Overflow will likely answer it before too long. Further reading Component reference Release schedule Format specification Custom element specification Who makes AMP HTML? AMP HTML is made by the AMP Project. If youre a contributor to the open source community this includes you! Security disclosures The AMP Project accepts responsible security disclosures through the Google Application Security program. Code of conduct The AMP Project strives for a positive and growing project community that provides a safe environment for everyone. All members, committers and volunteers in the community are required to act according to the code of conduct. License AMP HTML is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.