pickadate The mobile-friendly, responsive, and lightweight jQuery date & time input picker. master To get started, check out the: Homepage - Date picker - Time picker - API To get it: Download the latest stable build or git clone git://github.com/amsul/pickadate.js.git or bower install pickadate NOTE: Looking for Project Maintainers I am looking for project maintainers to keep pickadate up to date and bug-free. As it stands, there are quite a few issues that are ready to be resolved and merged, but I would like help from someone in championing it forward. If it sounds like you are up to the challenge, shoot met an email at reach@amsul.ca with a link to your Github account :pray:. Library files The lib folder includes the library files with a compressed folder containing the minified counter-parts. These files are minified using Grunt. Pickers There are three picker files: picker.js The core file (required before any other picker) picker.date.js The date picker picker.time.js The time picker To support old browsers, namely IE8, also include the legacy.js file. Themes All themes are generated using LESS and compiled from the lib/themes-source folder into the lib/themes folder. There are two themes: default.css The default modal-style theme classic.css The classic dropdown-style theme Based on the theme, pick the relevant picker styles: default.date.css and default.time.css when using the default theme classic.date.css and classic.time.css when using the classic theme ** For languages with text flowing from right-to-left, also include the rtl.css stylesheet. Translations The translations live in the lib/translations folder. There are currently 43 language translations included. Building with Grunt Grunt ~0.4.5 is used to build the project files. To get started, clone the project and then run: npm install to get the required node modules. grunt test --verbose to confirm you have all the dependencies. Type out grunt --help to see a list of all the tasks available. The generally used tasks are: grunt develop compiles the LESS files and watches for any source changes. grunt package compiles and then minifies the source files. grunt test tests the entire package. Styling with LESS The picker themes are built using LESS with Grunt. To customize the CSS output, read the _variables.less file in the lib/themes-source folder. You can specify: colors for the theme, sizes for the picker, media-query breakpoints, and a whole bunch of other stuff. Make sure to run the grunt develop task before making any changes to compile it into CSS. Bugs Before opening a new issue, please search the existing Issues for anything similar – there might already be an answer to your problem. You might also wanna check out the Contributing guide. Contributing Before contributing any code to the project, please take a look at the Contributing guide. If theres anything youd like to discuss, we like to hang out on Gitter. Support If you find this library useful and would like to see further development, consider supporting it. © 2014 Amsul Licensed under MIT