libui: a portable GUI library for C This README is being written. Status It has come to my attention that I have not been particularly clear about how usable or feature-complete libui is, and that this has fooled many people into expecting more from libui right this moment than I have explicitly promised to make available. I apologize for not doing this sooner. libui is currently mid-alpha software. Much of what is currently present runs stabily enough for the examples and perhaps some small programs to work, but the stability is still a work-in-progress, much of what is already there is not feature-complete, some of it will be buggy on certain platforms, and theres a lot of stuff missing. In short, heres a list of features that I would like to add to libui, but that arent in yet: tables and trees (the former is currently WIP and may land in preliminary form soon) clipboard support, including drag and drop more and better dialogs printing accessibility for uiArea and custom controls document-based programs tighter OS integration (especially for document-based programs), to allow programs to fully feel native, rather than merely look and act native better support for standard dialogs and features (search bars, etc.) OpenGL support (this was already being worked on by someone else, but I dont know what happened to them...) In addition, here is a list of issues generalizing existing problems. Furthermore, libui is not properly fully documented yet. This is mainly due to the fact that the API was initially unstable enough so as to result in rewriting documentation multiple times, in addition to me not being happy with really any existing C code documentation tool. That being said, I have started to pin down my ideal code documentation style in parts of ui.h, most notably in the uiAttributedString APIs. Over time, I plan on extending this to the rest of the headers. You can also use the documentation for libuis Go bindings as a reference, though it is somewhat stale and not optimally written. But libui is not dead; I am working on it whenever I can, and I hope to get it to a point of real quality soon! News Note that todays entry (Eastern Time) may be updated later today. 30 May 2018 Merged the previous Announcements and Updates section of this README into a single News section, and merged the respective archive files into a single NEWS.md file. 16 May 2018 Thanks to @parro-it and @msink, libui now has better CI, including AppVeyor for Windows CI, and automated creation of binary releases when I make a tagged release. 13 May 2018 Added new functions to work with uiDateTimePickers: uiDateTimePickerTime(), uiDateTimePickerSetTime(), and uiDateTimePickerOnChanged(). These operate on standard <time.h> struct tms. Thanks @cody271! Release builds on Windows with MSVC should be fixed now; thanks @l0calh05t, @slahn, @mischnic, and @zentner-kyle. 12 May 2018 GTK+ and OS X now have a cleaner build process for static libraries which no longer has intermediate files and differing configurations. As a result, certain issues should no longer be present. New naming rules for internal symbols of libui have also started being drafted; runtime symbols and edge cases still need to be handled (and the rules applied to Windows) before this can become a regular thing. 2 May 2018 On Windows, you no longer need to carry around a libui.res file with static builds. You do need to link in the appropriate manifest file, such as the one in the windows/ folder (I still need to figure out exactly what is needed apart from the Common Controls v6 dependency, or at least to create a complete-ish template), or at least include it alongside your executables. This also means you should no longer see random cmake errors when building the static libraries. 18 April 2018 Introduced a new uiTimer() function for running code on a timer on the main thread. (Thanks to @cody271.) Migrated all code in the common/ directory to use uipriv prefixes for everything that isnt static. This is the first step toward fixing static library oddities within libui, allowing libui to truly be safely used as either a static library or a shared library. 18 March 2018 Introduced an all-new formatted text API that allows you to process formatted text in ways that the old API wouldnt allow. You can read on the whole API here. There is also a new examples for it: drawtext, which shows the whole API at a glance. It doesnt yet support measuring or manipulating text, nor does it currently support functions that would be necessary for things like text editors; all of this will be added back later. libui also now uses my utf library for UTF-8 and UTF-16 processing, to allow consistent behavior across platforms. This usage is not completely propagated throughout libui, but the Windows port uses it in most places now, and eventually this will become what libui will use throughout. Also introduced a formal set of contribution guidelines, see CONTRIBUTING.md for details. They are still WIP. 17 February 2018 The longstanding Enter+Escape crashes on Windows have finally been fixed (thanks to @lxn). Alpha 3.5 is now here. This is a quickie release primiarly intended to deploy the above fix to package ui itself. It is a partial binary release; sorry! More new things will come in the next release, which will also introduce semver (so it will be called v0.4.0 instead). Alpha 3.5 also includes a new control gallery example. The screenshots below have not been updated yet. Old announcements can be found in the NEWS.md file. Runtime Requirements Windows: Windows Vista SP2 with Platform Update or newer Unix: GTK+ 3.10 or newer Mac OS X: OS X 10.8 or newer Build Requirements All platforms: CMake 3.1.0 or newer Windows: either Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 or newer (2013 is needed for va_copy()) — you can build either a static or a shared library MinGW-w64 (other flavors of MinGW may not work) — you can only build a static library; shared library support will be re-added once the following features come in: Isolation awareness, which is how you get themed controls from a DLL without needing a manifest Unix: nothing else specific Mac OS X: nothing else specific, so long as you can build Cocoa programs Building Out-of-tree builds typical of cmake are preferred: $ # you must be in the top-level libui directory, otherwise this wont work $ mkdir build $ cd build $ cmake .. Pass -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF to cmake to build a static library. The standard cmake build configurations are provided; if none is specified, Debug is used. If you use a makefile generator with cmake, then $ make $ make tester # for the test program $ make examples # for examples and pass VERBOSE=1 to see build commands. Build targets will be in the build/out folder. Project file generators should work, but are untested by me. On Windows, I use the Unix Makefiles generator and GNU make (built using the build_w32.bat script included in the source and run in the Visual Studio command line). In this state, if MinGW-w64 (either 32-bit or 64-bit) is not in your %PATH%, cmake will use MSVC by default; otherwise, cmake will use with whatever MinGW-w64 is in your path. set PATH=%PATH%;c:\msys2\mingw(32/64)\bin should be enough to temporarily change to a MinGW-w64 build for the current command line session only if you installed MinGW-w64 through MSYS2; no need to change global environment variables constantly. Installation Arch Linux Can be built from AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/libui-git/ Documentation Needs to be written. Consult ui.h and the examples for details for now. Language Bindings libui was originally written as part of my package ui for Go. Now that libui is separate, package ui has become a binding to libui. As such, package ui is the only official binding. Other people have made bindings to other languages: Language | Bindings --- | --- C++ | libui-cpp, cpp-libui-qtlike C# / .NET Framework | LibUI.Binding C# / .NET Core | DevZH.UI, SharpUI, LibUISharp CHICKEN Scheme | wasamasa/libui Common Lisp | jinwoo/cl-ui Crystal | libui.cr, hedron D | DerelictLibui (flat API), libuid (object-oriented) Euphoria | libui-euphoria Harbour | HBUI Haskell | haskell-libui JavaScript/Node.js | libui-node, libui.js (merged into libui-node?), proton-native, vuido Julia | Libui.jl Kotlin | kotlin-libui Lua | libuilua, libui-lua, lui, lui Nim | ui PHP | ui Python | pylibui, pylibui-cffi Ruby | libui-ruby Rust | libui-rs, arcturu/libui-rs, LeoTindall/libui-rs Scala | scalaui Swift | libui-swift Frequently Asked Questions Why does my program start in the background on OS X if I run from the command line? OS X normally does not start program executables directly; instead, it uses Launch Services to coordinate the launching of the program between the various parts of the system and the loading of info from an .app bundle. One of these coordination tasks is responsible for bringing a newly launched app into the foreground. This is called "activation". When you run a binary directly from the Terminal, however, you are running it directly, not through Launch Services. Therefore, the program starts in the background, because no one told it to activate! Now, it turns out there is an API that we can use to force our app to be activated. But if we use it, then wed be trampling over Launch Services, which already knows whether it should activate or not. Therefore, libui does not step over Launch Services, at the cost of requiring an extra user step if running directly from the command line. See also this and this. Contributing See CONTRIBUTING.md. Screenshots From examples/controlgallery: