Angular Full-Stack generator Yeoman generator for creating MEAN/SEAN stack applications, using ES2017, MongoDB/SQL, Express, Angular, and Node - lets you quickly set up a project following best practices. Generated project: Looking for AngularJS 1.x? $ npm install -g yo gulp-cli generator-angular-fullstack@4.2.3 Usage Install yo, gulp-cli, and generator-angular-fullstack: npm install -g yo gulp-cli generator-angular-fullstack Please note: If you run into trouble compiling native add-ons during the installation, follow node-gyps short guide on required compilation tools. Then, to run your app (make sure the MongoDB daemon is running if you selected Mongo), run the following to start your server: sh npm run start:server and the following to start the Webpack dev server for the front-end: sh npm run start:client The Webpack server will tell you which port to access the app at (usually http://localhost:8080/). Run yo angular-fullstack yo angular-fullstack See the Getting Started guide for more information. Prerequisites MongoDB - Download and Install MongoDB - If you plan on scaffolding your project with mongoose, youll need mongoDB to be installed and have the mongod process running. If you have Docker installed, you can easily run a test database with docker run -p 27017:27017 --name afs-mongo -d mongo The projects JavaScript is written in ECMAScript 2015. If youre unfamiliar with the latest changes to the specification for JavaScript, check out http://es6-features.org/ Supported Configurations General Build Systems: Gulp Testing: Jasmine Mocha + Chai + Sinon Chai assertions: Expect Should Client Scripts: JavaScript (Babel), TypeScript Module Systems: Webpack Markup: HTML, Pug Stylesheets: CSS, Stylus, Sass, Less * Angular Routers: <code>ngRoute</code>, <code>ui-router</code> CSS Frameworks: Bootstrap Option to include UI Bootstrap Server Scripts: JavaScript (Babel), TypeScript (planned) Database: None, MongoDB, SQL Authentication boilerplate: Yes, No oAuth integrations: Facebook, Twitter, Google Socket.io integration: Yes, No Generators Available generators: App angular-fullstack (aka angular-fullstack:app) Server Side angular-fullstack:endpoint Client Side (via generator-angular-fullstack-component) angular-fullstack:route To be re-updated: angular-fullstack:component angular-fullstack:controller angular-fullstack:filter angular-fullstack:directive angular-fullstack:service angular-fullstack:provider angular-fullstack:factory angular-fullstack:decorator Deployment angular-fullstack:openshift angular-fullstack:heroku Documentation Check out our documentation home page. Contribute See the contributing docs When submitting an issue, please follow the Yeoman issue guidelines. Especially important is to make sure Yeoman is up-to-date, and providing the command or commands that cause the issue, as well as any stack traces. License BSD license Contributors Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Sponsors Is your company using Angular-FullStack? Ask your boss to support the project. You will get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor]