BEFORE UPDATING THIS FILE, READ THIS. This file is automatically generated during release. It is important for you to not update README directly. - If you need to change the content, update `scripts/templates/readme.ejs` - If you need to add/remove a package or a link, update the .monorepo.json file instead. Any changes to README.md directly will result in a failure on CI. Angular DevKit Development tools and libraries specialized for Angular This is the home of the DevKit and the Angular CLI code. You can find the Angular CLI specific README here. This is the home for all the tools and libraries built to assist developers with their Angular applications. Quick Links Gitter | Contributing | Angular CLI | |---|---|---| The Goal of DevKit Our goal is to provide a large set of libraries that can be used to manage, develop, deploy and analyze your code. This is the extension of the Angular CLI Project. Once this set of tools is done, the Angular CLI as it is today will become one of many interfaces available to perform those tasks. Everything will also be available to third party tools and IDEs. Tools | Project | Package | Version | Links | |---|---|---|---| Angular CLI | @angular/cli | | Schematics CLI | @angular-devkit/schematics-cli | | Packages This is a monorepo which contains many packages: | Project | Package | Version | Links | |---|---|---|---| Architect | @angular-devkit/architect | | Architect CLI | @angular-devkit/architect-cli | | Build Angular | @angular-devkit/build-angular | | Build NgPackagr | @angular-devkit/build-ng-packagr | | Build Optimizer | @angular-devkit/build-optimizer | | Build Webpack | @angular-devkit/build-webpack | | Core | @angular-devkit/core | | Schematics | @angular-devkit/schematics | | Schematics | Project | Package | Version | Links | |---|---|---|---| Angular PWA Schematics | @angular/pwa | | Angular Schematics | @schematics/angular | | Package JSON Update Schematics | @schematics/package-update | | Schematics Schematics | @schematics/schematics | | Package Update Schematics | @schematics/update | | Misc | Project | Package | Version | Links | |---|---|---|---| Webpack Angular Plugin | @ngtools/webpack | |