Material Design for Angular This is the home for the Angular teams Material Design components built for and with Angular. Quick links Documentation, demos, and guides | Google group | Contributing | Plunker Template | StackBlitz Template Getting started See our Getting Started Guide if youre building your first project with Angular Material. Check out our directory of design documents for more insight into our process. If youd like to contribute, you must follow our contributing guidelines. You can look through the issues (which should be up-to-date on who is working on which features and which pieces are blocked) and make a comment. Also see our help wanted label. High level stuff planned for Q3 2018 (July - September): Finishing cdk virtual-scroll Finishing cdk drag-and-drop New cdk/collections selection directives Ongoing migration to bazel Improve docs for cdk Bug fixes and code health improvements, especially around accessibility. Available features | Feature | Notes | Docs | |------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|--------------| | autocomplete | | Docs | | badge | | Docs | | bottom-sheet | | Docs | | button | | Docs | | button-toggle | | Docs | | cards | | Docs | | checkbox | | Docs | | chips | | Docs | | data-table | | Docs | | datepicker | | Docs | | dialog | | Docs | | divider | | Docs | | expansion-panel | | Docs | | grid-list | | Docs | | icon | | Docs | | input | | Docs | | list | Action list planned 2018 | Docs | | menu | | Docs | | paginator | | Docs | | progress-bar | | Docs | | progress-spinner | | Docs | | radio | | Docs | | ripples | | Docs | | select | | Docs | | sidenav | | Docs | | slide-toggle | | Docs | | slider | | Docs | | snackbar / toast | | Docs | | sort-header | | Docs | | stepper | | Docs | | tabs | | Docs | | textarea | | Docs | | toolbar | | Docs | | tooltip | | Docs | | tree | | Docs | | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ | | theming | | Guide | | typography | | Guide | | layout | See angular/flex-layout | Wiki | | cdk | | Docs | In progress, planned, and non-planned features | Feature | Status | Docs | Issue | |------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------|----------------| | virtual-repeat | In-progress, planned Q3 2018 | - | #823 | | fab speed-dial | Not started, not planned | - | #860 | | fab toolbar | Not started, not planned | - | - | | bottom-nav | Not started, not planned | - | #408 | The goal of Angular Material Our goal is to build a set of high-quality UI components built with Angular and TypeScript, following the Material Design spec. These components will serve as an example of how to write Angular code following best practices. What do we mean by "high-quality"? Internationalized and accessible so that all users can use them. Straightforward APIs that dont confuse developers. Behave as expected across a wide variety of use-cases without bugs. Behavior is well-tested with both unit and integration tests. Customizable within the bounds of the Material Design specification. Performance cost is minimized. Code is clean and well-documented to serve as an example for Angular devs. Browser and screen reader support Angular Material supports the most recent two versions of all major browsers: Chrome (including Android), Firefox, Safari (including iOS), and IE11 / Edge We also aim for great user experience with the following screen readers: NVDA and JAWS with IE / FF / Chrome (on Windows). VoiceOver with Safari on iOS and Safari / Chrome on OSX. * TalkBack with Chrome on Android.