Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more contributor license agreements. See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership. The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. Apache PredictionIO (incubating) Apache PredictionIO (incubating) is an open source machine learning framework for developers, data scientists, and end users. It supports event collection, deployment of algorithms, evaluation, querying predictive results via REST APIs. It is based on scalable open source services like Hadoop, HBase (and other DBs), Elasticsearch, Spark and implements what is called a Lambda Architecture. To get started, check out http://predictionio.incubator.apache.org! Table of contents Installation Quick Start Bugs and Feature Requests Documentation Contributing Community Installation A few installation options available. Installing Apache PredictionIO (incubating) from Source Code Installing Apache PredictionIO (incubating) with Docker (community contributed) Quick Start Recommendation Engine Template Quick Start Guide Similiar Product Engine Template Quick Start Guide Classification Engine Template Quick Start Guide Bugs and Feature Requests Use Apache JIRA to report bugs or request new features. Documentation Documentation, included in this repo in the docs/manual directory, is built with Middleman and publicly hosted at predictionio.incubator.apache.org. Interested in helping with our documentation? Read Contributing Documentation. Community Keep track of development and community news. Subscribe to the user mailing list user-subscribe@predictionio.incubator.apache.org and the dev mailing list dev-subscribe@predictionio.incubator.apache.org Follow @predictionio on Twitter. Contributing Read the Contribute Code page. You can also list your projects on the Community Project page. License Apache PredictionIO (incubating) is under Apache 2 license.