Sample App: AppIntro AppIntro is an Android Library that helps you make a cool intro for your app, like the ones in Google apps. Watch the demo video on YouTube Usage Basic usage Add the JitPack repository to your build file Add it in your root build.gradle at the end of repositories: gradle allprojects { repositories { ... maven { url https://jitpack.io } } } Add the dependency gradle dependencies { implementation com.github.apl-devs:appintro:v4.2.3 } Create a new Activity that extends AppIntro: ```java public class IntroActivity extends AppIntro { @Override protected void onCreate(@Nullable Bundle savedInstanceState) { super.onCreate(savedInstanceState); // Note here that we DO NOT use setContentView(); // Add your slide fragments here. // AppIntro will automatically generate the dots indicator and buttons. addSlide(firstFragment); addSlide(secondFragment); addSlide(thirdFragment); addSlide(fourthFragment); // Instead of fragments, you can also use our default slide // Just set a title, description, background and image. AppIntro will do the rest. addSlide(AppIntroFragment.newInstance(title, description, image, backgroundColor)); // OPTIONAL METHODS // Override bar/separator color. setBarColor(Color.parseColor("#3F51B5")); setSeparatorColor(Color.parseColor("#2196F3")); // Hide Skip/Done button. showSkipButton(false); setProgressButtonEnabled(false); // Turn vibration on and set intensity. // NOTE: you will probably need to ask VIBRATE permission in Manifest. setVibrate(true); setVibrateIntensity(30); } @Override public void onSkipPressed(Fragment currentFragment) { super.onSkipPressed(currentFragment); // Do something when users tap on Skip button. } @Override public void onDonePressed(Fragment currentFragment) { super.onDonePressed(currentFragment); // Do something when users tap on Done button. } @Override public void onSlideChanged(@Nullable Fragment oldFragment, @Nullable Fragment newFragment) { super.onSlideChanged(oldFragment, newFragment); // Do something when the slide changes. } } ``` Note above that we DID NOT use setContentView(); Finally, declare the activity in your Manifest like so: xml <activity android:name="com.example.example.intro" android:label="@string/app_intro" /> Do not declare the intro as your main app launcher unless you want the intro to launch every time your app starts. Refer to the wiki for an example of how to launch the intro once from your main activity. Alternative layout If you want to try an alternative layout (as seen in Googles Photo app), just extend AppIntro2 in your Activity. Thats all :) java public class IntroActivity extends AppIntro2 { // ... } Slides Basic slides AppIntro provides two simple classes, AppIntroFragment and AppIntro2Fragment which one can use to build simple slides. ```java @Override protected void onCreate(@Nullable Bundle savedInstanceState) { // ... addSlide(AppIntroFragment.newInstance(title, description, image, backgroundColor)); } ``` Custom slides example One may also define custom slides as seen in the example project: * Copy the class SampleSlide from my example project. * Add a new slide with addSlide(SampleSlide.newInstance(R.layout.your_slide_here)); Theres no need to create one class for fragment anymore. :) Extended usage Animations AppIntro comes with some pager animations. Choose the one you like and then activate it with: ```java @Override protected void onCreate(@Nullable Bundle savedInstanceState) { // ... setFadeAnimation(); } ``` Available animations: java setFadeAnimation() setZoomAnimation() setFlowAnimation() setSlideOverAnimation() setDepthAnimation() If you want to create nice parallax effect or your own custom animation, create your own PageTransformer and call: ```java @Override protected void onCreate(@Nullable Bundle savedInstanceState) { // ... setCustomTransformer(transformer); } ``` Click here to see how I did it in the example app. Background color transitions AppIntro supports background color transitions: In order to setup the transitions, simply implement ISlideBackgroundColorHolder: ```java public final class MySlide extends Fragment implements ISlideBackgroundColorHolder { @Override public int getDefaultBackgroundColor() { // Return the default background color of the slide. return Color.parseColor("#000000"); } @Override public void setBackgroundColor(@ColorInt int backgroundColor) { // Set the background color of the view within your slide to which the transition should be applied. if (layoutContainer != null) { layoutContainer.setBackgroundColor(backgroundColor); } } } ``` The API is quite low-level, therefore highly customizable. The interface contains two methods: getDefaultBackgroundColor: Return the default background color (i.e. the background color the slide has in non-sliding state) of the slide here. setBackgroundColor(int): This method will be called while swiping between two slides. Update the background color of the view to which the transition should be applied. This is normally the root view of your Fragments layout. But one may also apply the color transition to some other view only (i.e. a Button). Runtime Permissions (Android 6.0+) Android 6.0 introduced a new permissions model for developers. Now all your apps have to request permissions which can be a tedious thing to implement. However, AppIntro simplifies this down to one single line of code! ```java @Override protected void onCreate(@Nullable Bundle savedInstanceState) { // ... // Ask for CAMERA permission on the second slide askForPermissions(new String[]{Manifest.permission.CAMERA}, 2); // OR // This will ask for the camera permission AND the contacts permission on the same slide. // Ensure your slide talks about both so as not to confuse the user. askForPermissions(new String[]{Manifest.permission.CAMERA, Manifest.permission.READ_CONTACTS}, 2); } ``` NOTE: It is advised that you only put one permission in the String array unless you want the app to ask for multiple permissions on the same slide. NOTE 2: Requesting permissions automatically disables sliding, and users will have to result to pressing the buttons. Please do not open any issues regarding this, as they will be immmediately closed. Thanks! Slide Policies If you want to restrict navigation between your slides (i.e. the user has to toggle a checkbox in order to continue), our Slide Policy feature might help you. All you have to do is implement ISlidePolicy in your slides: ```java public final class MySlide extends Fragment implements ISlidePolicy { @Override public boolean isPolicyRespected() { return // If user should be allowed to leave this slide } @Override public void onUserIllegallyRequestedNextPage() { // User illegally requested next slide } } ``` The interface contains two methods: isPolicyRespected: The return value of this method defines if the user can leave this slide, i.e. navigate to another one onUserIllegallyRequestedNextPage: This method gets called if the user tries to leave the slide although isPolicyRespected returned false. One may show some error message here. Example App See example code here on GitHub. You can also see it live by downloading our example on Google Play. Real life examples Do you need inspiration? A lot of apps are using AppIntro out there: Planets Hermes - Material IRC Client Apps using AppIntro If you are using AppIntro in your app and would like to be listed here, please let us know by commenting in this issue! Numix Hermes Audio Reminder Pro Wizr Daily Quotes Planets Weather Delta PDF Me Circles Task Master Smoothie Recipes SideBar Notes just food AlarmSMS Aware App is region restricted - please confirm avail. region neutriNote Handwriting Note Friends Roulette Karting Tools ChineseDictionary (粵韻漢典離線粵語普通話發聲中文字典) Sifter #-ludus 2.0 Snipit Text Grabber Service Notes Salary Barometer Best Business Idea! Wi-Fi password reminder Safe Notes Xpaper - Moto X Wallpapers Find My Parked Car BoxPlay Music Player Vape Tool Pro NebelNiek Soundboard sdiwi | Win your purchase! Helal ve Sağlıklı Yaşam HipCar - Car Rental Schematiskt Skolschema Third Eye Crypton - Password Manager Web Video Cast Sask. Geo-Memorial SchoolBox Fitness Challenge Crunch (ICE) Filmy - Your Movie Guide HEBF Optimizer ▪ Root Wifi Captive Login IIFYM Ampwifi Winamp Remote AaiKya: Leave Tracker Angopapo - People around you Hugetwit Wake Me Up (Mumbai Railway) SelfMote - Wireless Remote app Boo Music Player BeatPrompter Orario Treni Trenitalia Tipsy for Gardaland