PhantomJS - Scriptable Headless WebKit PhantomJS (phantomjs.org) is a headless WebKit scriptable with JavaScript. The latest stable release is version 2.1. Important: PhantomJS development is suspended until further notice (see #15344 for more details). Use Cases Headless web testing. Lightning-fast testing without the browser is now possible! Page automation. Access and manipulate web pages with the standard DOM API, or with usual libraries like jQuery. Screen capture. Programmatically capture web contents, including CSS, SVG and Canvas. Build server-side web graphics apps, from a screenshot service to a vector chart rasterizer. Network monitoring. Automate performance analysis, track page loading and export as standard HAR format. Features Multiplatform, available on major operating systems: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, and other Unices. Fast and native implementation of web standards: DOM, CSS, JavaScript, Canvas, and SVG. No emulation! Pure headless (no X11) on Linux, ideal for continuous integration systems. Also runs on Amazon EC2, Heroku, and Iron.io. Easy to install: Download, unpack, and start having fun in just 5 minutes. Questions? Explore the complete documentation. Read tons of user articles on using PhantomJS. Join the mailing-list and discuss with other PhantomJS fans. PhantomJS is free software/open source, and is distributed under the BSD license. It contains third-party code, see the included third-party.txt file for the license information on third-party code. PhantomJS is created and maintained by @ariyahidayat, with the help of many contributors.