Entity Framework Core Documentation on using EF Core is available at https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/. EF Core here, EF6 elsewhere This project is for Entity Framework Core. Entity Framework 6 is still under active development at https://github.com/aspnet/EntityFramework6. What is EF Core? Entity Framework (EF) Core is a lightweight and extensible version of the popular Entity Framework data access technology. EF Core is an object-relational mapper (O/RM) that enables .NET developers to work with a database using .NET objects. It eliminates the need for most of the data-access code that developers usually need to write. Database Providers The source for SQL Server, SQLite, and InMemory providers are included in this project. Additional providers are available. For a complete list, see https://docs.microsoft.com/ef/core/providers/. Provider | Package name | Stable (master branch) | Nightly (dev branch) -----------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|------------------------- SQL Server | Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer | | SQLite | Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SQLite | | InMemory (for testing) | Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.InMemory | | Project Wiki More details about our project, like our release roadmap, or how to get and build our code, are located in our our project wiki. Building from source To run a complete build on command line only, execute build.cmd or build.sh without arguments. This will execute only the part of the build script that downloads and initializes a few required build tools and packages. See developer documentation for more details.