The compiler for writing next generation JavaScript. Supporting Babel Babel is a community-driven project used by many companies and projects, and is maintained by a group of volunteers. If youd like to help support the future of the project, please consider: Giving developer time on the project. (Message us on Twitter or Slack for guidance!) Giving funds by becoming a sponsor (see below)! Open Collective Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Patreon Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Bronze Mike Sherov Intro Babel is a tool that helps you write code in the latest version of JavaScript. When your supported environments dont support certain features natively, Babel will help you compile those features down to a supported version. In js // ES2015 arrow function [1, 2, 3].map((n) => n + 1); Out js [1, 2, 3].map(function(n) { return n + 1; }); Try it out at our REPL. FAQ Who maintains Babel? Mostly a handful of volunteers! Please check out our team page! Looking for support? For questions and support please visit join our Slack Community (you can sign-up here for an invite), ask a question on Stack Overflow, or ping us on Twitter. Is there a Babel song? Im so glad you asked: Hallelujah —— In Praise of Babel by @angus-c. Tweet us your recordings! Where are the docs? Check out our website: babeljs.io, and report issues/features at babel/website. Want to report a bug or request a feature? Please read through our CONTRIBUTING.md and fill out the issue template at babel/issues! Want to contribute to Babel? Check out our CONTRIBUTING.md to get started with setting up the repo. If you have already joined Slack, join our #development channel and say hi! Check out the issues with the good first issue and help wanted label. We suggest also looking at the closed ones to get a sense of the kinds of issues you can tackle. Our discussions/notes/roadmap: babel/notes Our progress on TC39 proposals: babel/proposals How is the repo structured? The Babel repo is managed as a monorepo that is composed of many npm packages. License MIT