How to learn Haskell This is a recommended path for learning Haskell based on experience helping others. A list of recommendations from one of the authors of the Haskell Book. For non-English speakers Auf Deutsch En Español En Français In Italiano Em Português În Română 繁體中文 简体中文 По-русски Українською Bahasa Indonesia Srpski Dont sweat the stuff you dont understand immediately. Keep moving! Community Our IRC channel is #haskell-beginners on Freenode. IRC web client here. The haskell mailing lists. Community Guidelines See the community guidelines to understand the conduct that is expected in the IRC channel. Youll get a warning if youre not obviously trolling, but be aware the channel is exclusively for those learning or teaching Haskell. Installing Haskell Use Stack to get going with Haskell Get Stack to get GHC installed and to build your projects. If you dont know anything about Stack and would like an overview, check out this comprehensive Stack video tutorial. Also, DO NOT INSTALL HASKELL PLATFORM Instead of following the instructions on Haskell.org, get Stack. Why not platform? https://mail.haskell.org/pipermail/haskell-community/2015-September/000014.html How should I learn Haskell? The core recommendation is to read the lectures and complete all exercises/homework for the Spring 13 version of cis194 followed by the FP course. Both are linked below. Everything else can be considered optional and is mentioned so you know where to look. Haskell Programming from First Principles. @dmvianna wanted me to let you know that the below are just the free recommended resources. If youre willing to check out a book, we heartily recommend our own Haskell Book! If you cant afford the book for any reasons, please email us using the contact information at our support page. Haskell Book subsumes all of the primary resources recommended here Yorgeys cis194 course Do this first if arent getting the Haskell Book, this is the best free introduction to Haskell. Available online. Brent Yorgeys course is the best Ive found so far. This course is valuable as it will not only equip you to write basic Haskell but also help you to understand parser combinators. The only reason you shouldnt start with cis194 is if you are not a programmer or are an inexperienced one. If thats the case, start with Thompsons book and transition to cis194. Functional Programming course This is the course we recommend doing after Yorgeys cis194 course Available on github here. This will reinforce and give you experience directly implementing the abstractions introduced in cis194, this is practice which is critical to becoming comfortable with everyday uses of Functor/Applicative/Monad/etc. in Haskell. Doing cis194 and then the FP course represents the core recommendation of my guide and is how we teach everyone Haskell. Supplementary course after cis194 and the FP course Provides more material on intermediate topics cs240h is available online: Spring 14 Winter 16 This is Bryan OSullivans online course from the class he teaches at Stanford. If you dont know who he is, take a gander at half the libraries any Haskell application ends up needing and his name is on it. Of particular note if youve already done the Yorgey course are the modules on phantom types, information flow control, language extensions, concurrency, pipes, and lenses. Resources for specific topics in Haskell These resources are not vetted or tested with learners as cis194 and FP course have been, but theyre linked in the topic listing so you have ideas on where to begin. This includes things like intermediate/advanced concepts and subjects like tooling and text editors. Dialogues Hosted in this repository here. These are actually pretty important and helpful. Look here for deep dives on a variety of topics.