Awesome Hyper A curated list of sweet Hyper packages, themes, and resources. Inspired by the awesome list thing. You might also like awesome-node and awesome-npm, which both have CLI stuff you can use with Hyper! Please read the contribution guidelines before contributing. Check out the official Hyper site, check out Zeit, and their interesting Hosting product, Now. Want to add your awesome Hyper package, theme, or resource? Make the change and open a pull request! Like awesome-hyper? Reach out to @bitandbang, @matheusfrndes, and @iamstarkov on Twitter and say hi! 👋 AWESOME ITEM TEMPLATE -- * [Hyper Awesome Name](hyper.awesome.link) - Kick-arse description of why the Package, Theme, or resource is AWESOME! -- /AWESOME ITEM TEMPLATE Contents Packages Productivity Customization Development Fun Themes Resources Packages Know of another Hyper package? Help add it! Productivity Name and description | Downloads -------------------- | ------------- hyperline - A status line at the bottom of your Hyper! | hypercwd - Open new tabs with the same directory as your current tab. | hyperterm-1password - Integration with 1Password (password manager). | hyperterm-visor - Show/hide your Hyper terminal with a global hotkey & more. | hyper-sync-settings - Easy way to backup and restore Hyper settings to Github. | hyperterm-summon - Summon your Hyper windows with a system-wide hotkey. | hyperterm-paste - Pasting into terminal made safe and easy. | hyperterm-alternatescroll - Mousewheel/trackpad scrolling for alternate screen (less, git log, nano, etc...). | hyperterm-lastpass - LastPass plugin for autofilling passwords in Hyper. | hyperterm-dibdabs - Unique colored dot on the left of the tab is added for quick identification of commonly used tabs based on its title. | hyperterm-tabs - Rearrange tabs by drag&dropping them. | hyperterm-focus-reporting - Adds focus reporting to Hyper - similar to iTerm2. | hyperlinks - Extension for Hyper that automatically links URLs. | hyper-statusline - Status line showing current cwd and git branch status. | hypernpm - Use keyboard shortcuts to run npm script commands. | hyper-startup - Executes any configured commands when Hyper loads. | hyper-fileio - Ephemeral file sharing direct from Hyper. | hyper-history - Show a list of history commands. | hyper-alt-click - Allows moving the cursor by alt+clicking where you want it to go. | hyperterm-safepaste - Edit your pastes before executing them. | hyper-copycat - Duplicate text input across all sessions in a tab. | hyper-broadcast - Broadcast user inputs to multiple terms. | hyperdocs - Get documentation pages right in your terminal. | hyper-search - Search text in your terminal. | hypergoogle - Search Google from your terminal. | hyper-quit - Quit Hyper on macOS when last window closes. | hyper-confirm - Displays a confirmation dialog before quitting Hyper. | hyper-match - Links patterns such as urls, emails and file paths to configured commands. | ⬆ Back to top Customization Name and description | Downloads -------------------- | ------------- hpm-cli - A plugin manager for Hyper. | hypertheme - A theme manager for Hyper, published right off the bat. You should import your favorite text editor or terminal theme and add it to awesome-hyper! | hyper-blink - Make your cursor blink. | hyperborder - Add a gradient border with the same colors as in the Hyper logo. | hyper-transparent-bg - Add a transparent background to your Hyper through an interesting HTML hack. | hyperterm-close-on-left - Positions the close tab button on the left. | hyperterm-mactabs - Better tab styles, with macOS-inspired design and close buttons on the left, compatible with most themes. | hyperterm-final-say - Allows user-set overrides of any plugin or theme settings applied on top of the defaults ./.hyperterm.js. | hyperterm-overlay - A complete and customizable solution for overlay window in your Hyper. | hyper-tab-icons - Add icons to the header tabs for the current running process in Hyper. | config-hyperterm - Easily set/get Hyper config. | hyperfullscreen - Will start Hyper in full screen. | hyperterm-crosshair - Shows the cursor position with an horizontal and vertical highlight/ruler. | hyperterm-cursor - Allows seeing the char behind your cursor by a color difference. | hypersixteen - A base16 loader for Hyper. | hyper-stylesheet - Adds support for an external hyper stylesheet. | hyperlayout - Layout presets for Hyper. | hyper-autohide-tabs - Autohide tab bar when there is only one tab. | hyperminimal - Removes the window header for more space and less distraction. | hyper-autoprofile - Change terminal appearance (backgroundColor, font...) according to current shell prompt. | hyper-tabs-enhanced - Configurable enhanced tabs with tab icons and more. | hyper-arc-dark-controls - Pretty window controls from the Arc Dark theme for Hyper. | hyper-mac-controls - Mac-like window controls for Hyper. | hyper-terminal-tabs - Brings Terminal.app look and feel to Hyper. | hyper-dark-scrollbar - Pretty scrollbar for Hyper. | hyper-pane - Navigate through panes with arrows, jump directly to a specific pane with digit or change focus on mouse hover. | hyper-always-on-top - Add a menu item to keep application windows always on top. | hyper-transparent-dynamic - Dynamically set transparent background based on current theming. | hyper-vsplit-fix - Fixes the vertical split border height in Hyper. | hyper-hide-title - Hide the window title when there is only one tab. | hyper-wal - Extension for using color schemes generated by wal in Hyper. | hyper-hover-header - Hidden header/title bar. Move the cursor to the top border of the window to have the header/title bar fade in. | hyper-transparent - Hyper plugin to easily set window transparency and vibrancy. | hyper-spotify - Displays currently playing song on Spotify at the bottom of the terminal and allows you to control your favourite music. | hyper-background - Change the background of your Hyper terminal! | hyper-vertical-tabs - Put the tabs on a sidebar to the left, as is possible in iTerm2 and ROXTerm. | themer - Generate themes for Hyper and all your other development tools | hyper-native-window-decoration - Native window decorations in HyperTerm. | hyper-hide-scroll - Extension to hide the scrollbar from your terminal. | hyper-systray - Hyper in native Windows Systray. Hide from taskbar. Global shortcut for show/hide window. | ⬆ Back to top Development Name and description | Downloads -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- hyperterm-open-devtools - Open DevTools for currently showing web page with a hotkey. | hyperterm-install-devtools - Use Chrome DevTools extension on Hyper. | is-hyper - Check if your Node.js script is running in Hyper. | ⬆ Back to top Fun Name and description | Downloads ---------------------------------- | ------------- hyperpower - Add a pinch of kick-arse raw POWER to your Hyper! Adds the pixel-explosion and shake effect thats been implemented in several text editors. | htyt - Search and play youtube videos in Hyper. | hyper-john - A 10% chance of getting hit with the John Cena theme when opening tabs, windows and splits. | hyper-command-gifs - Gives you matching GIFs for your terminal commands. | hyper-cat - Turn your terminal into nyan cat while typing. | hyper-cat-cursor - Replaces the cursor with a cat emoji sequence. | gitrocket - Launch a rocket ship in your terminal when you push code with Git! | hypergravity - Add some fancy physics to your terminal! | space-pull - Add animation of landing rocket in your terminal when pulling code with git. | hyper-bloodbath - A brutal re-imagining of hyperpower. Dripping blood from your cursor. | ⬆ Back to top Themes Name and description | Downloads -------------------- | ------------- an-old-hype - A Hyper theme inspired by a galaxy far far away... and by Jesse Leites atom syntax theme. | hyper-adventure-time - A Hyper port of the Adventure Time theme from iTerm2 Color Schemes. | hyper-atom-dark-transparent - Hyper theme based on the hyperterm-atom-dark, but with transparency. | hyper-aurora - Theme based on Aurora Borealis. | hyper-aww - A theme that changes the terminal background to a different cute animal gif each time you open Hyper. | hyper-ayu - Theme based on the Ayu Theme for Sublime Text. | hyper-ayu-light - Theme based on the Ayu Light Theme for Sublime Text. | hyper-ayu-mirage - Theme based on the Ayu Mirage Theme for Sublime Text. | hyper-bloody - An amazing dark theme with awesome vibrant colors. | hyper-captain-sweetheart - Tuff but sweet Hyper theme. | hyper-chesterish - Saturated theme based on Chester syntax. | hyper-clean - A clean theme with IBM Design colors. | hyper-criollo - Theme based in vaporwave colors. | hyper-darkmatter - Dark - Darkmatter theme for Hyper, inspired by Sublime Darkmatter. | hyper-dracula - A dark theme for Hyper based on the Dracula theme. | hyper-firewatch - A dark Hyper theme inspired by Campo Santos Firewatch video game. | hyper-flat-2 - Another Flat theme for Hyper based on Flat theme for Terminal. | hyper-flat - A Flat theme for Hyper. | hyper-frontend-delight - Dark - Based on Frontend Delight iTerm2 color scheme. | hyper-hybrid-reduced-contrast - A port of the reduced contrast version of vim-hybrid. | hyper-loved - A dark, elegant theme. | hyper-macos - Native macOS theme with vibrancy support. | hyper-mahoushoujo - Light theme inspired by magical girls ✨ | hyper-material-box - The most hackable theme for your favorite terminal Hyper. | hyper-material-theme - Dark - The most epic material theme now on Hyper App. | hyper-materialshell - A dark material design theme with a good contrast and color pops at the important parts. Designed to be easy on the eyes, based on materialshell. | hyper-midnight - A minimalist theme for the Hyper terminal. | hyper-monochrome - Monochrome theme, based on vim-monochrome. | hyper-monokai-deluxe - Monokai Deluxe theme with hyperborder in a better way and tab highlighting. | hyper-nord - Nord theme for Hyper. | hyper-oceans16 - Saturated theme based on Base16 Ocean syntax. | hyper-oldschool - Old school terminal theme for Hyper. | hyper-one-dark-vivid - Dark theme based on Atom One Dark with more vivid text colors. | hyper-one-light - Light - A very cute theme with extra light background based on the Atom One Light pallete. | hyper-papercolor - PaperColor theme for Hyper. | hyper-peacock - A Peacock theme for Hyper. | hyper-pokemon - Wondrous, tailor-made Pokémon themes for your Hyper terminal. | hyper-polarbear - A beautiful white theme for Hyper. | hyper-ramda - Theme inspired by the RamdaJS REPL. | hyper-relaxed - A theme to take a more relaxed view of things. | hyper-seashells - A Hyper port of the iTerm2 SeaShells color scheme. | hyper-sierra-vibrancy - hyper-sierra with vibrancy. | hyper-sierra - A dark theme for Hyper inspired by the Sierra Nevada. | hyper-snazzy - Dark - Elegant theme with bright colors. | hyper-solarized-dark - Pleasant and carefully chosen colors based on the popular solarized palette. | hyper-solarized-light - Pleasant and carefully chosen colors based on the popular solarized palette. | hyper-star-wars - Super awesome, your Hyper terminal shall look. | hyper-teatime - Light theme with sweet, pastel colors. | hyper-theme - Hyper colors theme for Hyper terminal. | hyper-thirtyone - A slightly modified classic linux terminal theme for Hyper. | hyper-white-theme - White & Purple theme for Hyper. | hyper-zenburn - A classic low-contrast theme originally made for vim adapted for Hyper. | hyper-zigorat - A minimal syntax theme for Hyper. | hyperambient - Dark/Light - A theme that reacts to ambient light changes. | hyperatompunk - Hyper extension to make your terminal look like a CRT in Fallout. | hyperblue-vibrancy - The same cool tones from hyperblue, now with vibrancy! | hyperblue - Dark, cool hues. Turns Hyper blue. | hyperganymede - A color scheme inspired by the icy coldness of the moons of Jupiter. | hyperhue - Dark/Rainbow - A theme that reacts to the colors of your Philips Hue lights. | hypernasa - A theme which replaces the terminal background with NASAs Picture of the Day. | hyperocean - Deep oceanic blue Hyper theme. | hyperpanic - Dark - A very pretty theme close to the Panic themes colors. Dark blue background with very bright highlight colors. | hyperpunk - Hyper extension to make your terminal look Cyberpunk / Sci-fi. | hypersolar-dark - A dark theme based loosely on Solarized Dark, with a fix for the usual solarized dark colours with blacks that actually show up in your terminal! | hyperterm-adventurous - An adventure time inspired theme based on the Adventurous Atom theme. | hyperterm-atom-dark - Dark - Really beautiful import of Atom One Dark theme from the official Atom theme. | hyperterm-base-16-ocean - Simple Base 16 Ocean theme for hyperterm | hyperterm-base16-tomorrow-dark - Dark - Hyper port of Atoms Base16 Tomorrow Dark Theme, with a pretty muted pastel pallette. | hyperterm-bold-tab - Bolds your active tab text. Makes keeping track of your current tab painless. | hyperterm-cobalt2-theme - Dusty Blue, dark with vibrant pops of colour for the important stuff. Goes well with Cobalt2 ZSH theme. | hyperterm-colors - Dark - Sweet dark color scheme with a chocolate-y brown background and a pretty set of muted colors! | hyperterm-dark-drifter - A (dark) Hyper theme inspired by Heart Machines Hyper Light Drifter. | hyperterm-dark-fusion - Hyperterm theme based on atom-dark-fusion. | hyperterm-dark-macos - A theme that pairs nicely with macOS dark mode. | hyperterm-deep-space - Dark - Dark, muted theme with good color matching. | hyperterm-duotone-darkspace - Dark/Orange - A beautiful dark theme inspired by Duotone Themes by Simurai. More color variations can be found here. | hyperterm-earthsong - A natural and calming theme for Hyper. Ported from iTerms Earthsong theme. | hyper-electron-highlighter - Dark - Port of Atom One Dark syntax colors with more vibrant colors. (previously hyperterm-electron-highlighter) | hyperterm-firewatch - Dark – Glowing, dark theme heavily inspired by the Firewatch game and the atom syntax theme based on it. | hyperterm-gooey - A dark theme with striking green and purple, based off atom-dark. | hyperterm-gruvbox-dark - Dark - Hyper theme with retro, earthy groove colors based on the gruvbox vim color scheme. | hyperterm-gruvbox - Theme based on gruvbox with dark, light styles and contrast options. | hyperterm-hipster - A hipster theme based on the hipster-syntax theme for Atom. | hyperterm-hybrid - Dark - Beautiful theme, based on vim-hybrid, that combines Tomorrow-Night, Codecademy, Jellybeans, and Solarized themes together. | hyperterm-light-drifter - A (light) Hyper theme inspired by Heart Machines Hyper Light Drifter. | hyperterm-material-spacegray - A port of the low-contrast Material Spacegray theme. | hyperterm-material - Dark - Brings the famous Material Design colors scheme in Hyper. | hyperterm-mild-dark - A mild dark theme for Hyper. | hyperterm-monokai - Dark - A port of the popular monokai theme. The colors are warm, relaxing and pleasing to the eyes. | hyperterm-oceanic-next - Dark blue theme optimised for ES2015. Ported from Oceanic Next. | hyperterm-panda — Panda syntax theme a superminimal, dark Syntax Theme — Hyper port. | hyperterm-retro - A retro Hyper theme inspired by the cool-retro-term terminal emulator. | hyperterm-sourcerer - A 16-bit dark theme based on xero/sourcerer. | hyperterm-spacegray - Port of the popular Spacegray theme, optimized for terminal usage. | hyperterm-tomorrow-night - Dark - Port of the popular Tomorrow Night theme. | hyperterm-ubuntu-theme - Ubuntu-style theme. | hyperterm-unlease - A fresh theme for Hyper that makes you feel like theres one of those pine tree car air fresheners hanging from your terminal. | hyperterm-wp-theme - An adaptation of the popular JetBrains Darcula Theme with support for colored tabs. | verminal - A dark Hyper theme with beautiful vibrancy. | Know of another really awesome theme? Get it on awesome-hyper! ⬆ Back to top Resources Official Hyper Website - The official Hyper website. hyperzsh - Zsh for Hyper. Extending Hyper - A talk by Matthew Conlen (@mathisonian) at EmpireNode 2016. Hyper Themes screenshot browser by @MatthiasWinkelmann to visually browse screenshots of Hyper themes. Carbon is a tool to easily create Hyper-based screenshots. Know of another Hyper resource? Share the love! ⬆ Back to top