Bower - A package manager for the web ..psst! While Bower is maintained, we recommend yarn and webpack or parcel for new front-end projects! Bower offers a generic, unopinionated solution to the problem of front-end package management, while exposing the package dependency model via an API that can be consumed by a more opinionated build stack. There are no system wide dependencies, no dependencies are shared between different apps, and the dependency tree is flat. Bower runs over Git, and is package-agnostic. A packaged component can be made up of any type of asset, and use any type of transport (e.g., AMD, CommonJS, etc.). View complete docs on bower.io View all packages available through Bowers registry. Install sh $ npm install -g bower Bower depends on Node.js and npm. Also make sure that git is installed as some bower packages require it to be fetched and installed. Usage See complete command line reference at bower.io/docs/api/ Installing packages and dependencies ```sh install dependencies listed in bower.json $ bower install install a package and add it to bower.json $ bower install --save install specific version of a package and add it to bower.json $ bower install # --save ``` Using packages We discourage using bower components statically for performance and security reasons (if component has an upload.php file that is not ignored, that can be easily exploited to do malicious stuff). The best approach is to process components installed by bower with build tool (like Grunt or gulp), and serve them concatenated or using a module loader (like RequireJS). Uninstalling packages To uninstall a locally installed package: sh $ bower uninstall <package-name> prezto and oh-my-zsh users On prezto or oh-my-zsh, do not forget to alias bower=noglob bower or bower install jquery\#1.9.1 Never run Bower with sudo Bower is a user command; there is no need to execute it with superuser permissions. Windows users To use Bower on Windows, you must install Git for Windows correctly. Be sure to check the options shown below: Note that if you use TortoiseGit and if Bower keeps asking for your SSH password, you should add the following environment variable: GIT_SSH - C:\Program Files\TortoiseGit\bin\TortoisePlink.exe. Adjust the TortoisePlink path if needed. Ubuntu users To use Bower on Ubuntu, you might need to link nodejs executable to node: sudo ln -s /usr/bin/nodejs /usr/bin/node Configuration Bower can be configured using JSON in a .bowerrc file. Read over available options at bower.io/docs/config. Support Discord chat StackOverflow Mailinglist - twitter-bower@googlegroups.com Contributing We welcome contributions of all kinds from anyone. Please take a moment to review the guidelines for contributing. Bug reports Feature requests Pull requests Note that on Windows for tests to pass you need to configure Git before cloning: git config --global core.autocrlf input Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] License Copyright (c) 2012-present Twitter and other contributors Licensed under the MIT License