The JavaScript Way A modern introduction to an essential language. Copyright © 2017, 2018 Baptiste Pesquet. Overview This book aims to be a useful companion for anyone wishing to (re)discover the many facets of JavaScript. Numerous brain cycles were spent to make it: Beginner-friendly yet comprehensive. From the very basics of programming up to front-end and back-end web development, a lot of topics are covered in a simple and accessible way. No prior knowledge needed! Standards-aligned. The book is entirely written using the recent ES2015 syntax, giving you future-proof knowledge. From start to finish, it enforces good programming habits, embraces the ubiquitous JavaScript tools ESLint and Prettier and closely follows the popular AirBnb Style Guide. Hands-on. No real learning happens without practicing! Each chapter is accompanied by a series of exercises to put your newly acquired skills into action. A three-part project will guide you in the creation of a social news web application (see it in action). Easy to follow. Code along directly in your browser or build an efficient JavaScript development environment on your local machine. Read a bit more about the goals of this project and its successful launch. Publishing This repository contains the book manuscript files, free to read for everyone. Your contributions are most welcome. For a better reading experience, this content is also available: As a multi-format, DRM-free ebook on Leanpub, with an option to get the commented source code for all exercises and projects. As a DRM-free ebook on Amazon. Supporting this work A lot of time and energy went into this content. If you find it useful and want to support this effort, heres what you can do: Buy the ebook version (see above paragraph). Any financial contribution would be much appreciated. Rate it or leave a review on Goodreads or Amazon. Spread the word about it. Thanks in advance for your support! Table of contents Introduction About this book Welcome to programming Introducing JavaScript Environment setup Part I: Learn to code programs 3, 2, 1... Code! Play with variables Add conditions Repeat statements Write functions Create your first objects Store data in arrays Work with strings Understand object-oriented programming Discover functional programming Project: a social news program Part II: Create interactive web pages Whats a web page? Discover the DOM Traverse the DOM Modify page structure React to events Manipulate forms Animate elements Project: a social news web page Part III: Build web applications Web development 101 Query a web server Use web APIs Send data to a web server Discover Node.js Create a web server Project: a social news web app Conclusion Summary and perspectives Acknowledgements Appendices Style guide