node-postgres Non-blocking PostgreSQL client for Node.js. Pure JavaScript and optional native libpq bindings. Install sh $ npm install pg :star: Documentation :star: Features Pure JavaScript client and native libpq bindings share the same API Connection pooling Extensible JS<->PostgreSQL data-type coercion Supported PostgreSQL features Parameterized queries Named statements with query plan caching Async notifications with LISTEN/NOTIFY Bulk import & export with COPY TO/COPY FROM Extras node-postgres is by design pretty light on abstractions. These are some handy modules weve been using over the years to complete the picture. The entire list can be found on our wiki. Support node-postgres is free software. If you encounter a bug with the library please open an issue on the GitHub repo. If you have questions unanswered by the documentation please open an issue pointing out how the documentation was unclear & I will do my best to make it better! When you open an issue please provide: - version of Node - version of Postgres - smallest possible snippet of code to reproduce the problem You can also follow me @briancarlson if thats your thing. I try to always announce noteworthy changes & developments with node-postgres on Twitter. Professional Support I offer professional support for node-postgres. I provide implementation, training, and many years of expertise on how to build applications with Node, Express, PostgreSQL, and React/Redux. Please contact me at brian.m.carlson@gmail.com to discuss how I can help your company be more successful! Sponsorship :star: If you are benefiting from node-postgres and would like to help keep the project financially sustainable please visit Brian Carlsons Patreon page. Contributing :heart: contributions! I will happily accept your pull request if it: - has tests - looks reasonable - does not break backwards compatibility Troubleshooting and FAQ The causes and solutions to common errors can be found among the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) License Copyright (c) 2010-2018 Brian Carlson (brian.m.carlson@gmail.com) Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.