中文版 An industrial-grade RPC framework used throughout Baidu, with 1,000,000+ instances(not counting clients) and thousands kinds of services, called "baidu-rpc" inside Baidu. Only C++ implementation is opensourced right now. You can use it to: Build a server that can talk in multiple protocols (on same port), or access all sorts of services * restful http/https, h2/h2c (compatible with grpc, will be opensourced). using http in brpc is much more friendly than libcurl. * redis and memcached, thread-safe, more friendly and performant than the official clients. * rtmp/flv/hls, for building live-streaming services. * hadoop_rpc (may be opensourced) * rdma support (will be opensourced) * thrift support, thread-safe, more friendly and performant than the official clients. * all sorts of protocols used in Baidu: baidu_std, streaming_rpc, hulu_pbrpc, sofa_pbrpc, nova_pbrpc, public_pbrpc, ubrpc and nshead-based ones. * Access protobuf-based protocols with HTTP+json, probably from another language. * Build HA distributed services using an industrial-grade implementation of RAFT consensus algorithm which is opensourced at braft Servers can handle requests synchronously or asynchronously. Clients can access servers synchronously, asynchronously, semi-synchronously, or use combo channels to simplify sharded or parallel accesses declaratively. Debug services via http, and run cpu, heap and contention profilers. Get better latency and throughput. Extend brpc with the protocols used in your organization quickly, or customize components, including naming services (dns, zk, etcd), load balancers (rr, random, consistent hashing) Try it! Read overview to know where brpc can be used and its advantages. Read getting started for building steps and play with examples. Docs: Performance benchmark bvar bvar_c++ bthread bthread or not thread-local Execution Queue Client Basics Error code Combo channels Access HTTP Access thrift Access UB Streaming RPC Access redis Access memcached Backup request Dummy server Server Basics Serve HTTP Serve thrift Serve Nshead Debug server issues Server push Avalanche Live streaming json2pb Builtin Services status vars connections flags rpcz cpu_profiler heap_profiler contention_profiler Tools rpc_press rpc_replay rpc_view benchmark_http parallel_http Others IOBuf Streaming Log FlatMap brpc外功修炼宝典(training material) A tutorial on building large-scale services(training material) brpc internal(training material) RPC in depth New Protocol Atomic instructions IO Threading Overview Load Balancing Locality-aware Consistent Hashing Memory Management Timer keeping bthread_id Use cases inside Baidu 百度地图api入口 联盟DSP ELF学习框架 云平台代理服务 Contribute code If you can fix any of the issues or add new features, youre welcome to send the PR to us. If the PR is accepted, your contribution will be scored from 0 to 5 points according to the difficulty and quality (higher is better). If you accumulate 10 points, you can contact us for interviewing opportunities or recommendation letter for your future jobs. Make sure your code meets following requirements before submitting the PR: The code conforms to google C++ coding style and is indented by 4 spaces. The code appears where it should be. For example the code to support an extra protocol should not be put in general classes like server.cpp, channel.cpp, while a general modification would better not be hidden inside a very specific protocol. Has unittests. Check following items after submitting the PR: Compilations and unittests in travis-ci are passed. Feedback Please report bugs, concerns, suggestions by issues, or join QQ-group 498837325 to discuss problems around source code.