Awesome Data Science An open source Data Science repository to learn and apply towards solving real world problems. Table of contents Motivation Infographic What is Data Science? Colleges MOOCs Data Sets Bloggers Podcasts Books Facebook Accounts Twitter Accounts YouTube Videos & Channels Toolboxes - Environment Journals, Publications and Magazines Presentations Data Science Competitions Comics Tutorials Other Awesome Lists Motivation This part is for dummies who are new to Data Science This is a shortcut path to start studying Data Science. Just follow the steps to answer the questions, "What is Data Science and what should I study to learn Data Science?" First of all, Data Science is one of the hottest topics on the Computer and Internet farmland nowadays. People have gathered data from applications and systems until today and now is the time to analyze them. The next steps are producing suggestions from the data and creating predictions about the future. Here you can find the biggest question for Data Science and hundreds of answers from experts. Our favorite data scientist is Clare Corthell. She is an expert in data-related systems and a hacker, and has been working on a company as a data scientist. Clares blog. This website helps you to understand the exact way to study as a professional data scientist. Secondly, Our favorite programming language is Python nowadays for #DataScience. Pythons - Pandas library has full functionality for collecting and analyzing data. We use Anaconda to play with data and to create applications. Infographic Preview | Description ------------ | ------------- | A visual guide to Becoming a Data Scientist in 8 Steps by DataCamp (img) | Mindmap on required skills (img) | Swami Chandrasekaran made a Curriculum via Metro map. | by @kzawadz via twitter, MarketingDistillery.com | And a male version, from another article by MarketingDistillery.com | By Data Science Central | From this article by Berkeley Science Review. | Data Science Wars: R vs Python | How to select statistical or machine learning techniques | Choosing the Right Estimator | The Data Science Industry: Who Does What | Data Science Venn Diagram | Different Data Science Skills and Roles from this article by Springboard | A simple and friendly way of teaching your non-data scientist/non-statistician colleagues how to avoid mistakes with data. From Geckoboards Data Literacy Lessons. What is Data Science? What is Data Science @ Oreilly What is Data Science @ Quora The sexiest job of 21st century What is data science What is a data scientist Wikipedia a very short history of #datascience An Introduction to Data Science, PDF. Data Science Methodology by John Rollins PhD A Day in the Life of a Data Scientist by Rutgers University COLLEGES A list of colleges and universities offering degrees in data science. Data Science Degree @ Berkeley Data Science Degree @ UVA Data Science Degree @ Wisconsin Master of Information @ Rutgers MS in Computer Information Systems @ Boston University MS in Business Analytics @ ASU Online Data Science Engineer @ BTH MS in Applied Data Science @ Syracuse M.S. Management & Data Science @ Leuphana MOOCs Coursera Introduction to Data Science Data Science - 9 Steps Courses, A Specialization on Coursera Data Mining - 5 Steps Courses, A Specialization on Coursera Machine Learning – 5 Steps Courses, A Specialization on Coursera CS 109 Data Science Schoolofdata OpenIntro Data science MOOC CS 171 Visualization Process Mining: Data science in Action Oxford Deep Learning Oxford Deep Learning - video Oxford Machine Learning UBC Machine Learning - video Data Science Specialization Coursera Big Data Specialization Data Science and Analytics in Context by Edx Big Data University by IBM Udacity - Deep Learning Keras in Motion Data Sets Academic Torrents hadoopilluminated.com data.gov - The home of the U.S. Governments open data United States Census Bureau usgovxml.com enigma.com - Navigate the world of public data - Quickly search and analyze billions of public records published by governments, companies and organizations. datahub.io aws.amazon.com/datasets databib.org datacite.org quandl.com - Get the data you need in the form you want; instant download, API or direct to your app. figshare.com GeoLite Legacy Downloadable Databases Quoras Big Datasets Answer Public Big Data Sets Houston Data Portal Kaggle Data Sources Kaggle Datasets A Deep Catalog of Human Genetic Variation A community-curated database of well-known people, places, and things Google Public Data World Bank Data NYC Taxi data Open Data Philly Connecting people with data for Philadelphia A list of useful sources A blog post includes many data set databases grouplens.org Sample movie (with ratings), book and wiki datasets UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository - contains data sets good for machine learning research-quality data sets by Hilary Mason National Climatic Data Center - NOAA ClimateData.us (related: U.S. Climate Resilience Toolkit) r/datasets MapLight - provides a variety of data free of charge for uses that are freely available to the general public. Click on a data set below to learn more GHDx - Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation - a catalog of health and demographic datasets from around the world and including IHME results St. Louis Federal Reserve Economic Data - FRED New Zealand Institute of Economic Research – Data1850 Dept. of Politics @ New York University Open Data Sources UNICEF Statistics and Monitoring UNICEF Data undata NASA SocioEconomic Data and Applications Center - SEDAC The GDELT Project Sweden, Statistics Github free data source list StackExchange Data Explorer - an open source tool for running arbitrary queries against public data from the Stack Exchange network. San Fransisco Government Open Data IBM Blog abour open data Open data Index Liver Tumor Segmentation Challenge Dataset Public Git Archive GHTorrent Bloggers Wes McKinney - Wes McKinney Archives. Matthew Russell - Mining The Social Web. Greg Reda - Greg Reda Personal Blog Kevin Davenport - Kevin Davenport Personal Blog Julia Evans - Recurse Center alumna Hakan Kardas - Personal Web Page Sean J. Taylor - Personal Web Page Drew Conway - Personal Web Page Hilary Mason - Personal Web Page Noah Iliinsky - Personal Blog Matt Harrison - Personal Blog Data Science Renee Documenting my path from "SQL Data Analyst pursuing an Engineering Masters Degree" to "Data Scientist" Vamshi Ambati - AllThings Data Sciene Prash Chan - Tech Blog on Master Data Management And Every Buzz Surrounding It Clare Corthell - The Open Source Data Science Masters Paul Miller Based in the UK and working globally, Cloud of Datas consultancy services help clients understand the implications of taking data and more to the Cloud. Data Science London Data Science London is a non-profit organization dedicated to the free, open, dissemination of data science. We are the largest data science community in Europe. We are more than 3,190 data scientists and data geeks in our community. Datawrangling by Peter Skomoroch. MACHINE LEARNING, DATA MINING, AND MORE John Myles White Personal Blog Quora Data Science - Data Science Questions and Answers from experts Siah a PhD student at Berkeley Data Science Report MDS, Inc. Helps Build Careers in Data Science, Advanced Analytics, Big Data Architecture, and High Performance Software Engineering Louis Dorard a technology guy with a penchant for the web and for data, big and small Machine Learning Mastery about helping professional programmers to confidently apply machine learning algorithms to address complex problems. Daniel Forsyth - Personal Blog Data Science Weekly - Weekly News Blog Revolution Analytics - Data Science Blog R Bloggers - R Bloggers The Practical Quant Big data Micheal Le Gal a data enthusiast who gets hooked on solving intriguing problems and crafting beautiful stories and visualizations with data. Over the past 5 years, He haas applied statistics to solve problems in government, brain sciences, and most recently, retail. Datascope Analytics data-driven consulting and design Yet Another Data Blog Yet Another Data Blog Spenczar a data scientist at Twitch. I handle the whole data pipeline, from tracking to model-building to reporting. KD Nuggets Data Mining, Analytics, Big Data, Data, Science not a blog a portal Meta Brown - Personal Blog Data Scientist is building the data scientist culture. WhatSTheBigData is some of, all of, or much more than the above and this blog explores its impact on information technology, the business world, government agencies, and our lives. Mic Farris Focusing on science, datascience, business, technology, and channeling inner geekness! Tevfik Kosar - Magnus Notitia New Data Scientist How a Social Scientist Jumps into the World of Big Data Harvard Data Science - Thoughts on Statistical Computing and Visualization Data Science 101 - Learning To Be A Data Scientist Kaggle Past Solutions DataScientistJourney NYC Taxi Visualization Blog Learning Lover Dataists Data-Mania Data-Magnum Map Reduce Blog FastML Blog P-value - Musings on data science, machine learning and stats. datascopeanalytics Digital transformation datascientistjourney Data Mania Blog The File Drawer - Chris Saids science blog Emilio Ferraras web page DataNews Reddit TextMining Periscopic Hilary Parker Data Stories Data Science Lab Meaning of Adventures in Data Land DATA MINERS BLOG Dataclysm FlowingData - Visualization and Statistics Calculated Risk Oreilly Learning Blog Dominodatalab i am trask - A Machine Learning Craftsmanship Blog Vademecum of Practical Data Science - Handbook and recipes for data-driven solutions of real-world problems Dataconomy - A blog on the new emerging data economy Springboard - A blog with resources for data science learners Analytics Vidhya - A full-fledged website about data science and analytics study material. Occams Razor - Focused on Web Analytics. Data School - Data science tutorials for beginners! Colahs Blog - Blog for understanding Neural Networks! Sebastians Blog - Blog for NLP and transfer learning! Distill - Dedicated to clear explanations of machine learning! Podcasts Adversarial Learning Becoming a Data Scientist Data Crunch Data Skeptic Data Stories Learning Machines 101 Linear Digressions Not So Standard Deviations Partially Derivative Superdatascience Whats The Point Books Python Data Science Handbook The Data Science Handbook The Art of Data Usability - Early access Think Like a Data Scientist R in Action, Second Edition Introducing Data Science Practical Data Science with R Exploring Data Science - free eBook sampler Exploring the Data Jungle - free eBook sampler Facebook Accounts Data Big Data Scientist Data Science 101 Data Science Day Data Science Academy Facebook Data Science Page Data Science London Data Science Technology and Corporation Data Science - Closed Group Center for Data Science Big data hadoop NOSQL Hive Hbase Analytics, Data Mining, Predictive Modeling, Artificial Intelligence Big Data Analytics using R Big Data Analytics with R and Hadoop Big Data Learnings Big Data, Data Science, Data Mining & Statistics BigData/Hadoop Expert Data Mining / Machine Learning / AI Data Mining/Big Data - Social Network Ana Vademecum of Practical Data Science Veri Bilimi Istanbul The Data Science Blog Twitter Accounts Big Data Combine - Rapid-fire, live tryouts for data scientists seeking to monetize their models as trading strategies Big Data Mania - Data Viz Wiz | Data Journalist | Growth Hacker | Author of Data Science for Dummies (2015) Big Data Science - Big Data, Data Science, Predictive Modeling, Business Analytics, Hadoop, Decision and Operations Research. Charlie Greenbacker - Director of Data Science at @ExploreAltamira Chris Said - Data scientist at Twitter Clare Corthell - Dev, Design, Data Science @mattermark #hackerei DADI Charles-Abner - #datascientist @Ekimetrics. , #machinelearning #dataviz #DynamicCharts #Hadoop #R #Python #NLP #Bitcoin #dataenthousiast Data Science Central - Data Science Central is the industrys single resource for Big Data practitioners. Data Science London Data Science. Big Data. Data Hacks. Data Junkies. Data Startups. Open Data Data Science Renee - Documenting my path from SQL Data Analyst pursuing an Engineering Masters Degree to Data Scientist Data Science Report - Mission is to help guide & advance careers in Data Science & Analytics Data Science Tips - Tips and Tricks for Data Scientists around the world! #datascience #bigdata Data Vizzard - DataViz, Security, Military DataScienceX deeplearning4j - DJ Patil - White House Data Chief, VP @ RelateIQ. Domino Data Lab Drew Conway - Data nerd, hacker, student of conflict. Emilio Ferrara - #Networks, #MachineLearning and #DataScience. I work on #Social Media. Postdoc at @IndianaUniv Erin Bartolo - Running with #BigData--enjoying a love/hate relationship with its hype. @iSchoolSU #DataScience Program Mgr. Greg Reda Working @ GrubHub about data and pandas Gregory Piatetsky - KDnuggets President, Analytics/Big Data/Data Mining/Data Science expert, KDD & SIGKDD co-founder, was Chief Scientist at 2 startups, part-time philosopher. Hakan Kardas - Data Scientist Hilary Mason - Data Scientist in Residence at @accel. Jeff Hammerbacher ReTweeting about data science John Myles White Scientist at Facebook and Julia developer. Author of Machine Learning for Hackers and Bandit Algorithms for Website Optimization. Tweets reflect my views only. Juan Miguel Lavista - Principal Data Scientist @ Microsoft Data Science Team Julia Evans - Hacker - Pandas - Data Analyze Kenneth Cukier - The Economists Data Editor and co-author of Big Data (http://big-data-book.com ). Kevin Davenport - Organizer of https://meetup.com/San-Diego-R-Users-Group/ Kevin Markham - Data science instructor, and founder of Data School Kim Rees - Interactive data visualization and tools. Data flaneur. Kirk Borne - DataScientist, PhD Astrophysicist, Top #BigData Influencer. Linda Regber - Data story teller, visualizations. Luis Rei - PhD Student. Programming, Mobile, Web. Artificial Intelligence, Intelligent Robotics Machine Learning, Data Mining, Natural Language Processing, Data Science. Mark Stevenson - Data Analytics Recruitment Specialist at Salt (@SaltJobs) | Analytics - Insight - Big Data - Datascience Matt Harrison - Opinions of full-stack Python guy, author, instructor, currently playing Data Scientist. Occasional fathering, husbanding, ult|goalt-imate, organic gardening. Matthew Russell - Mining the Social Web. Mert Nuhoğlu Data Scientist at BizQualify, Developer Monica Rogati - Data @ Jawbone. Turned data into stories & products at LinkedIn. Text mining, applied machine learning, recommender systems. Ex-gamer, ex-machine coder; namer. Noah Iliinsky - Visualization & interaction designer. Practical cyclist. Author of vis books: http://www.oreilly.com/pub/au/4419 Paul Miller - Cloud Computing/ Big Data/ Open Data Analyst & Consultant. Writer, Speaker & Moderator. Gigaom Research Analyst. Peter Skomoroch - Creating intelligent systems to automate tasks & improve decisions. Entrepreneur, ex Principal Data Scientist @LinkedIn. Machine Learning, ProductRei, Networks Prash Chan - Solution Architect @ IBM, Master Data Management, Data Quality & Data Governance Blogger. Data Science, Hadoop, Big Data & Cloud. Quora Data Science Quoras data science topic R-Bloggers - Tweet blog posts from the R blogosphere, data science conferences and (!) open jobs for data scientists. Rand Hindi Randy Olson - Computer scientist researching artificial intelligence. Data tinkerer. Community leader for @DataIsBeautiful. #OpenScience advocate. Recep Erol - Data Science geek @ UALR Ryan Orban - Data scientist, genetic origamist, hardware aficionado Sean J. Taylor - Social Scientist. Hacker. Facebook Data Science Team. Keywords: Experiments, Causal Inference, Statistics, Machine Learning, Economics. Silvia K. Spiva - #DataScience at Cisco Spencer Nelson - Data nerd Talha Oz - Enjoys ABM, SNA, DM, ML, NLP, HI, Python, Java. Top percentile kaggler/data scientist Tasos Skarlatidis - Complex Event Processing, Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Passionate about programming and open-source. Terry Timko - InfoGov; Bigdata; Data as a Service; Data Science; Open, Social & Business Data Convergence Tony Baer - IT analyst with Ovum covering Big Data & data management with some systems engineering thrown in. Tony Ojeda - Data Scientist | Author | Entrepreneur. Co-founder @DataCommunityDC. Founder @DistrictDataLab. #DataScience #BigData #DataDC Vamshi Ambati - Data Science @ PayPal. #NLP, #machinelearning; PhD, Carnegie Mellon alumni (Blog: https://allthingsds.wordpress.com ) Wes McKinney - Pandas (Python Data Analysis library). WileyEd - Senior Manager - @Seagate Big Data Analytics | @McKinsey Alum | #BigData + #Analytics Evangelist | #Hadoop, #Cloud, #Digital, & #R Enthusiast WNYC Data News Team - The data news crew at @WNYC. Practicing data-driven journalism, making it visual and showing our work. @SkymindIOs open-source deep learning for the JVM. Integrates with Hadoop, Spark. Distributed GPU/CPUs | http://nd4j.org | https://www.skymind.ai/ Youtube Videos & Channels What is machine learning? Andrew Ng: Deep Learning, Self-Taught Learning and Unsupervised Feature Learning Deep Learning: Intelligence from Big Data Interview with Googles AI and Deep Learning Godfather Geoffrey Hinton Introduction to Deep Learning with Python What is machine learning, and how does it work? Data School - Data Science Education Neural Nets for Newbies by Melanie Warrick (May 2015) Neural Networks video series by Hugo Larochelle Google DeepMind co-founder Shane Legg - Machine Super Intelligence Data Science Primer Toolboxes - Environment Datalab from Google easily explore, visualize, analyze, and transform data using familiar languages, such as Python and SQL, interactively. Hortonworks Sandbox is a personal, portable Hadoop environment that comes with a dozen interactive Hadoop tutorials. R is a free software environment for statistical computing and graphics. RStudio IDE – powerful user interface for R. Its free and open source, works onWindows, Mac, and Linux. Python - Pandas - Anaconda Completely free enterprise-ready Python distribution for large-scale data processing, predictive analytics, and scientific computing Scikit-Learn Machine Learning in Python NumPy NumPy is fundamental for scientific computing with Python. It supports large, multi-dimensional arrays and matrices and includes an assortment of high-level mathematical functions to operate on these arrays. SciPy SciPy works with NumPy arrays and provides efficient routines for numerical integration and optimization. Data Science Toolbox - Coursera Course Data Science Toolbox - Blog Wolfram Data Science Platform Take numerical, textual, image, GIS or other data and give it the Wolfram treatment, carrying out a full spectrum of data science analysis and visualization and automatically generating rich interactive reports—all powered by the revolutionary knowledge-based Wolfram Language. Sense Data Science Development Platform A New Cloud Platform for Data Science and Big Data Analytics Collaborate on, scale, and deploy data analysis and advanced analytics projects radically faster. Use the most powerful tools — R, Python, JavaScript, Redshift, Hive, Impala, Hadoop, and more — supercharged and integrated in the cloud. Datadog Solutions, code, and devops for high-scale data science. Variance Build powerful data visualizations for the web without writing JavaScript Kite Development Kit The Kite Software Development Kit (Apache License, Version 2.0), or Kite for short, is a set of libraries, tools, examples, and documentation focused on making it easier to build systems on top of the Hadoop ecosystem. Domino Data Labs Run, scale, share, and deploy your models — without any infrastructure or setup. Apache Flink A platform for efficient, distributed, general-purpose data processing. Apache Hama Apache Hama is an Apache Top-Level open source project, allowing you to do advanced analytics beyond MapReduce. Weka Weka is a collection of machine learning algorithms for data mining tasks. Octave GNU Octave is a high-level interpreted language, primarily intended for numerical computations.(Free Matlab) Apache Spark Lightning-fast cluster computing Hydrosphere Mist - a service for exposing Apache Spark analytics jobs and machine learning models as realtime, batch or reactive web services. Caffe Deep Learning Framework Torch A SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING FRAMEWORK FOR LUAJIT Nervanas python based Deep Learning Framework Skale - High performance distributed data processing in NodeJS Aerosolve - A machine learning package built for humans. Intel framework - Intel® Deep Learning Framework Datawrapper – An open source data visualization platform helping everyone to create simple, correct and embeddable charts. Also at github.com Tensor Flow - TensorFlow is an Open Source Software Library for Machine Intelligence Natural Language Toolkit nlp-toolkit for node.js Julia – high-level, high-performance dynamic programming language for technical computing IJulia – a Julia-language backend combined with the Jupyter interactive environment Apache Zeppelin - Web-based notebook that enables data-driven, interactive data analytics and collaborative documents with SQL, Scala and more Featuretools - An open source framework for automated feature engineering written in python Optimus - Cleansing, pre-processing, feature engineering, exploratory data analysis and easy ML with PySpark backend. Quick Start Visualization Tools - Environments addepar amcharts anychart slemma cartodb Cube d3plus Data-Driven Documents(D3js) datahero dygraphs ECharts exhibit Gatherplot gephi ggplot2 Glue Google Chart Gallery highcarts import.io jqplot Matplotlib nvd3 Opendata-tools - list of open source data visualization tools Openrefine plot.ly raw rcharts techanjs tenxer Timeline variancecharts vida Wolframalpha Wrangler r2d3 NetworkX - High-productivity software for complex networks Journals, Publications and Magazines ICML - International Conference on Machine Learning epjdatascience Journal of Data Science - an international journal devoted to applications of statistical methods at large Big Data Research Journal of Big Data Big Data & Society Data Science Journal datatau.com/news - Like Hacker News, but for data Data Science Trello Board Medium Data Science Topic - Data Science related publications on medium Presentations How to Become a Data Scientist Introduction to Data Science Intro to Data Science for Enterprise Big Data How to Interview a Data Scientist How to Share Data with a Statistician The Science of a Great Career in Data Science What Does a Data Scientist Do? Building Data Start-Ups: Fast, Big, and Focused How to win data science competitions with Deep Learning Competitions Some data mining competition platforms Kaggle DrivenData Analytics Vidhya The Data Science Game InnoCentive TuneedIT Comics Tutorials Data science your way Other Awesome Lists Other amazingly awesome lists can be found in the awesome-awesomeness list. Awesome Machine Learning A curated list of awesome Machine Learning frameworks, libraries and software. lists awesome-dataviz awesome-python Data Science IPython Notebooks. awesome-r awesome-datasets – An awesome list of high-quality open datasets in public domains awesome-Machine Learning & Deep Learning Tutorials Awesome Data Science Ideas Machine Learning for Software Engineers Community Curated Data Science Resources Awesome Machine Learning On Source Code