Glide | View Glides documentation | 简体中文文档 | Report an issue with Glide Glide is a fast and efficient open source media management and image loading framework for Android that wraps media decoding, memory and disk caching, and resource pooling into a simple and easy to use interface. Glide supports fetching, decoding, and displaying video stills, images, and animated GIFs. Glide includes a flexible API that allows developers to plug in to almost any network stack. By default Glide uses a custom HttpUrlConnection based stack, but also includes utility libraries plug in to Googles Volley project or Squares OkHttp library instead. Glides primary focus is on making scrolling any kind of a list of images as smooth and fast as possible, but Glide is also effective for almost any case where you need to fetch, resize, and display a remote image. Download For detailed instructions and requirements, see Glides download and setup docs page. You can download a jar from GitHubs releases page. Or use Gradle: ```gradle repositories { mavenCentral() google() } dependencies { implementation com.github.bumptech.glide:glide:4.7.1 annotationProcessor com.github.bumptech.glide:compiler:4.7.1 } ``` Or Maven: xml <dependency> <groupId>com.github.bumptech.glide</groupId> <artifactId>glide</artifactId> <version>4.7.1</version> </dependency> <dependency> <groupId>com.github.bumptech.glide</groupId> <artifactId>compiler</artifactId> <version>4.7.1</version> <optional>true</optional> </dependency> For info on using the bleeding edge, see the Snapshots docs page. ProGuard Depending on your ProGuard (DexGuard) config and usage, you may need to include the following lines in your proguard.cfg (see the Download and Setup docs page for more details): ```pro -keep public class * implements com.bumptech.glide.module.GlideModule -keep public class * extends com.bumptech.glide.module.AppGlideModule -keep public enum com.bumptech.glide.load.ImageHeaderParser$ { [] $VALUES; public *; } for DexGuard only -keepresourcexmlelements manifest/application/meta-data@value=GlideModule ``` How do I use Glide? Check out the documentation for pages on a variety of topics, and see the javadocs. For Glide v3, see the wiki. Simple use cases with Glides generated API will look something like this: ```java // For a simple view: @Override public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) { ... ImageView imageView = (ImageView) findViewById(R.id.my_image_view); GlideApp.with(this).load("http://goo.gl/gEgYUd").into(imageView); } // For a simple image list: @Override public View getView(int position, View recycled, ViewGroup container) { final ImageView myImageView; if (recycled == null) { myImageView = (ImageView) inflater.inflate(R.layout.my_image_view, container, false); } else { myImageView = (ImageView) recycled; } String url = myUrls.get(position); GlideApp .with(myFragment) .load(url) .centerCrop() .placeholder(R.drawable.loading_spinner) .into(myImageView); return myImageView; } ``` Status Version 4 is now released and stable. Updates are currently released at least monthly with new features and bug fixes. Comments/bugs/questions/pull requests are always welcome! Please read CONTRIBUTING.md on how to report issues. Compatibility Minimum Android SDK: Glide v4 requires a minimum API level of 14. Compile Android SDK: Glide v4 requires you to compile against API 26 or later. If you need to support older versions of Android, consider staying on Glide v3, which works on API 10, but is not actively maintained. OkHttp 3.x: There is an optional dependency available called okhttp3-integration, see the docs page. Volley: There is an optional dependency available called volley-integration, see the docs page. Round Pictures: CircleImageView/CircularImageView/RoundedImageView are known to have issues with TransitionDrawable (.crossFade() with .thumbnail() or .placeholder()) and animated GIFs, use a BitmapTransformation (.circleCrop() will be available in v4) or .dontAnimate() to fix the issue. Huge Images (maps, comic strips): Glide can load huge images by downsampling them, but does not support zooming and panning ImageViews as they require special resource optimizations (such as tiling) to work without OutOfMemoryErrors. Build Building Glide with gradle is fairly straight forward: shell git clone https://github.com/bumptech/glide.git cd glide ./gradlew jar Note: Make sure your Android SDK has the Android Support Repository installed, and that your $ANDROID_HOME environment variable is pointing at the SDK or add a local.properties file in the root project with a sdk.dir=... line. Samples Follow the steps in the Build section to set up the project and then: shell ./gradlew :samples:flickr:run ./gradlew :samples:giphy:run ./gradlew :samples:svg:run ./gradlew :samples:contacturi:run You may also find precompiled APKs on the releases page. Development Follow the steps in the Build section to setup the project and then edit the files however you wish. Android Studio cleanly imports both Glides source and tests and is the recommended way to work with Glide. To open the project in Android Studio: Go to File menu or the Welcome Screen Click on Open... Navigate to Glides root directory. Select setting.gradle For more details, see the Contributing docs page. Getting Help To report a specific problem or feature request, open a new issue on Github. For questions, suggestions, or anything else, email Glides discussion group, or join our IRC channel: irc.freenode.net#glide-library. Contributing Before submitting pull requests, contributors must sign Googles individual contributor license agreement. Thanks The Android team and Jake Wharton for the disk cache implementation Glides disk cache is based on. Dave Smith for the GIF decoder gist Glides GIF decoder is based on. Chris Banes for his gradle-mvn-push script. Corey Hall for Glides amazing logo. Everyone who has contributed code and reported issues! Author Sam Judd - @sjudd on GitHub, @samajudd on Twitter License BSD, part MIT and Apache 2.0. See the LICENSE file for details. Disclaimer This is not an official Google product.