Octotree Browser extension (Chrome, Firefox, Opera and Safari) to show a code tree on GitHub. Awesome for exploring project source without having to pull every single repository to your machine. Features: Easy-to-navigate code tree, just like in IDEs Fast browsing with pjax Support private repositories (see instructions) Support GitHub Enterprise (Chrome and Opera only, see instructions) Install on Chrome, Firefox and Opera Install Octotree from Chrome Web Store, Mozilla Add-ons Store or Opera Add-ons Store Navigate to any GitHub repository (or just refresh this page as an example) The code tree should show on the left-hand side of the screen Note: to configure Octotree for GitHub Enteprise, see instructions Install on Safari Octotree is not available on the Safari gallery. You have to build from source. Download this repo and run the following command: bash gulp safari Find the extension folder in tmp/safari. Follow Apple instructions to install the extension to your browser. Install from prebuilt packages (all browsers) Prebuilt packages are available in the dist folder. For security reason, only download Octotree from this location. Note: Firefox 43+ requires add-ons to be signed. Therefore, you should install Octotree from the Mozilla store. For some reason if you want to install the prebuilt package instead, you have to disable sign-check. Settings Access Token Note for the paranoids (like me!): Octotree stores access tokens in your browser local storage and never transmits it anywhere. GitHub Octotree uses GitHub API to retrieve repository metadata. By default, it makes unauthenticated requests to the GitHub API. However, there are two situations when requests must be authenticated: You access a private repository You exceed the rate limit of unauthenticated requests When that happens, Octotree will ask for your GitHub personal access token. If you dont already have one, create one, then copy and paste it into the textbox. Note that the minimal scopes that should be granted are public_repo and repo (if you need access to private repositories). Bitbucket (experimental) Octotree uses Bitbucket API to retrieve repository metadata. By default, Octotree asks for your Bitbucket App password. If you dont already have one, create one (the minimal requirement is Repositoriess Read permission), then copy and paste it into the textbox. Note that Octotree extracts your username from the current page to invoke the Bitbucket API. If fail to do so, Octotree will ask you for a token update, you just need to prepend your username to the token, separated by a colon, i.e. USERNAME:TOKEN. Enterprise URLs By default, Octotree only works on github.com. To support enterprise version (Chrome and Opera only), you must grant Octotree sufficient permissions. Follow these steps to do so: Go to any GitHub repo Open the Octotree settings panel Fill in the GitHub Enterprise URLs textbox, one URL per line Click Save and accept the permission prompt Navigate to your GitHub Enterprise site You might be asked to create an access token Others Hotkeys: Octotree uses keymaster to register hotkeys. Check out the supported keys. Remember sidebar visibility: if checked, show or hide Octotree based on its last visibility. Show in non-code pages: if checked, allow Octotree to show in non-code pages such as Issues and Pull Requests. Load entire tree at once: if checked, load and render the entire code tree at once. To avoid long loading, this should be unchecked if you frequently work with very large repos. Show only pull request changes (new!): if checked and in "Pull requests" page, only show the change set of the pull request. Credits @crashbell for helping with GitLab and others @Ephemera for fixing many bugs @athaeryn and @letunglam for helping with UI design And many other people who submit bug fixes and reports Donate Loving Octotree? Donating to help us continue working on it.