React components for efficiently rendering large lists and tabular data. Check out the demo for some examples. Join the official Slack chat at react-virtualized.now.sh. Sponsors The following wonderful companies have sponsored react-virtualized: Learn more about becoming a sponsor! Getting started Install react-virtualized using npm. shell npm install react-virtualized --save ES6, CommonJS, and UMD builds are available with each distribution. For example: ```js // Most of react-virtualizeds styles are functional (eg position, size). // Functional styles are applied directly to DOM elements. // The Table component ships with a few presentational styles as well. // They are optional, but if you want them you will need to also import the CSS file. // This only needs to be done once; probably during your applications bootstrapping process. import react-virtualized/styles.css // You can import any component you want as a named export from react-virtualized, eg import { Column, Table } from react-virtualized // But if you only use a few react-virtualized components, // And youre concerned about increasing your applications bundle size, // You can directly import only the components you need, like so: import AutoSizer from react-virtualized/dist/commonjs/AutoSizer import List from react-virtualized/dist/commonjs/List ``` Note webpack 4 makes this optimization itself, see the documentation. If the above syntax looks too cumbersome, or you import react-virtualized components from a lot of places, you can also configure a Webpack alias. For example: js // Partial webpack.config.js { alias: { react-virtualized/List: react-virtualized/dist/es/List, }, ...rest } Then you can just import like so: ```js import List from react-virtualized/List; // Now you can use ``` You can also use a global-friendly UMD build: html <link rel="stylesheet" href="path-to-react-virtualized/styles.css"> <script src="path-to-react-virtualized/dist/umd/react-virtualized.js"></script> Now youre ready to start using the components. You can learn more about which components react-virtualized has to offer below. Dependencies React Virtualized has very few dependencies and most are managed by NPM automatically. However the following peer dependencies must be specified by your project in order to avoid version conflicts: react, react-dom. NPM will not automatically install these for you but it will show you a warning message with instructions on how to install them. Pure Components By default all react-virtualized components use shallowCompare to avoid re-rendering unless props or state has changed. This occasionally confuses users when a collections data changes (eg [a,b,c] => [d,e,f]) but props do not (eg array.length). The solution to this is to let react-virtualized know that something external has changed. This can be done a couple of different ways. Pass-thru props The shallowCompare method will detect changes to any props, even if they arent declared as propTypes. This means you can also pass through additional properties that affect cell rendering to ensure changes are detected. For example, if youre using List to render a list of items that may be re-sorted after initial render- react-virtualized would not normally detect the sort operation because none of the properties it deals with change. However you can pass through the additional sort property to trigger a re-render. For example: js <List {...listProps} sortBy={sortBy} /> Public methods Grid and Collection components can be forcefully re-rendered using forceUpdate. For Table and List, youll need to call forceUpdateGrid to ensure that the inner Grid is also updated. For MultiGrid, youll need to call forceUpdateGrids to ensure that the inner Grids are updated. Documentation API documentation available here. There are also a couple of how-to guides: Customizing classes and styles Displaying items in reverse order Using AutoSizer Creating an infinite-loading list Natural sort Table Sorting a Table by multiple columns Examples Examples for each component can be seen in the documentation. Here are some online demos of each component: ArrowKeyStepper AutoSizer CellMeasurer Collection ColumnSizer Grid InfiniteLoader List Masonry MultiGrid ScrollSync Table WindowScroller And here are some "recipe" type demos: Table with resizable (drag and drop) columns Collapsable tree view Full-page grid (spreadsheet) Dynamic cell measuring * Cell hover effects Supported Browsers react-virtualized aims to support all evergreen browsers and recent mobile browsers for iOS and Android. IE 9+ is also supported (although IE 9 will require some user-defined, custom CSS since flexbox layout is not supported). If you find a browser-specific problem, please report it along with a repro case. The easiest way to do this is probably by forking this Plunker. Friends Here are some great components built on top of react-virtualized: react-infinite-calendar: Infinite scrolling date-picker with localization, themes, keyboard support, and more react-sortable-hoc: Higher-order components to turn any list into an animated, touch-friendly, sortable list react-sortable-tree: Drag-and-drop sortable representation of hierarchical data react-virtualized-checkbox: Checkbox group component with virtualization for large number of options react-virtualized-select: Drop-down menu for React with windowing to support large numbers of options. react-vtree: Low-level tree component for React with virtualization to support large number of elements. * react-virtualized-tree: A reactive tree component that aims to render large sets of tree structured data in an elegant and performant way Contributions Use GitHub issues for requests. I actively welcome pull requests; learn how to contribute. Changelog Changes are tracked in the changelog. License react-virtualized is available under the MIT License.