Cachet Cachet is a beautiful and powerful open source status page system, a free replacement to services such as StatusPage.io, Status.io and others. Show your support Cachet is a BSD-3-licensed open source project. If youd like to support future development, check out the Patreon campaign. Features List your services components Log incidents Apply custom CSS to the status page Markdown support for incident messages JSON API Translated into eleven languages Metrics Cross-database support: MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite Subscriber notifications via Email Two factor authentication, with Google Authenticator Usage in production Use of master in a production environment is not recommended as it may change at any time. Requirements PHP 5.5.9+ or newer Apache or Nginx server Composer How to contribute Were always looking for contributions that improve Cachet. Its easy to get started and you dont even need to know how to write a single line of code! Contributing as a non-developer/non-designer Were always looking for new translations. Of course bug reports, feature requests and documentation are always appreciated. Contributing as a designer As Cachet gains new features, the design and ideas that were once a perfect fit need updating and in some cases designing from scratch. This is where you come in! Fancy giving Cachet a lick of paint? Sweet! Youll need to install Node.js, Bower and Gulp. To get started you can do the following: Install Node.js and our dev dependencies. Make your changes to the SCSS files in ./resources/assets/sass/ Run gulp If youre making a lot of changes, youll find that running gulp watch will make life easier for you! Contributing as a developer Built using Laravel. We use these extra dependencies to develop Cachet: Node.js Gulp Git Once cloned to your local machine, youll need some demo data! Run php artisan cachet:seed to get the demo installation on the go. Installation, Upgrades and Documentation You can now find our documentation at https://docs.cachethq.io. Installing Cachet Getting started with Docker Demo Account To test out the demo, you may login to the Dashboard with the following: Username: test or test@test.com Password: test123 The demo is reset every half hour. Release Notes We list releases on the Releases page of the Cachet GitHub repository. On the Releases page, you can also find the release notes for each release. Translations A special thank you to our translators, who have allowed us to share Cachet with the world. If youd like to contribute translations, please check out our CrowdIn project. Security Vulnerabilities If you discover a security vulnerability within Cachet, please send an e-mail to us at support@alt-three.com. We handle all security vulnerabilities on a case-by-case basis. Installations We offer a paid installation service, which starts at $99 but is subject to change, dependant on your setup and infrastructure. To find out more, email us at support@alt-three.com