Webamp A reimplementation of Winamp 2.9 in HTML5 and JavaScript. As seen on TechCrunch, Motherboard, Gizmodo, Hacker News (1, 2, 3), and elsewhere. Give it a try! Works in modern versions of Edge, Firefox, Safari and Chrome. IE is not supported. Features Check out this Twitter thread for an illustrated list of features: https://twitter.com/captbaritone/status/961274714013319168 Use Webamp in your own project Ive tried to make it possible to include Webamp in your own project. See the usage documentation for more information. Development yarn # Or: npm install npm start Open http://localhost:8080/webpack-dev-server/ in your browser. # Run tests and lint checks npm test Building npm run build npm run serve Open the local ip/port that is output to the console in your browser. Testing npm test This will run both the tests and the linter. Deploying Netlify watches GitHub for new versions of master. When a new version is seen, it is automatically built using npm run build and pushed to the server. Additionally, Netlify will run a build on every pull request and include a link under the heading "Deploy preview ready!". This enables easy high level testing of pull requests. In short, deploying should be as simple as pushing a commit to master. Additionally, if you want to fork the project, deploying should be as simple as setting up a free Netlify account. Advanced Usage There are some "feature flags" which you can manipulate by passing a specially crafted URL hash. Simply supply a JSON blob after the # of the URL to change these settings: skinUrl (string) Url of the default skin to use. Note, this file must be served with the correct Allows Origin header. audioUrl (string) Url of the default audio file to use. Note, this file must be served with the correct Allows Origin header. initialState (object) Override the initial Redux state. Values from this object will be recursively merged into the actual default state. Note: These are intended mostly as development tools and are subject to change at any time. Community Join our community chat on Discord: https://discord.gg/fBTDMqR There are a few related projects that have communites: Winamp Community Update Pack - "New plug-ins to add additional features to Winamp as well as replacement plug-ins to provide better implementations of some of the plug-ins natively included with Winamp". (Forum / Discord server) Webvs - A Winamp AVS like visualization library for the web. (Gitter chat) Reference skinspecs.pdf Skinners Atlas 1.5 by Jellby Winamp Skinning Tutorial Sacrat Skinning tutorial parts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, Winamp Wiki Predecessors Webamp2x An impressive implementation from 2002(!). JsAmp An implementation from 2005 by @twm (via Hacker News). LlamaCloud Comp From 2011 by Lee Martin (via Twitter) Winamp em HTML5 e Javascript In 2010 a developer named Danilo posted one of his HTML5 experiments: "an audio player simulating good old Winamp". You will have to download the zip file. JuicyDrop An HTML5 implementation with less emphasis on being true to the skin, but fully featured visualizations. @cggaurav is keeping it alive on GitHub Spotiamp The folks at Spotify reimplemented Winamp as a frontend for Spotify. Not in a browser, and only runs on Windows. Thanks Butterchurn, the amazing Mikdrop 2 WebGL implementation. Built and integrated into Webamp by: jberg Research and feature prototyping: @PAEz Beta feedback, catching many small UI inconsistencies: LuigiHann Beta feedback and insider answers to obscure Winamp questions: Darren Owen Donating the webamp NPM module name: Dave Eddy Thank you to Justin Frankel and everyone at Nullsoft for Winamp which inspired so many of us. License While the Winamp name, interface, and, sample audio file are surely property of Nullsoft, the code within this project is released under the MIT License. That being said, if you do anything interesting with this code, please let me know. Id love to see it.