CDNJS - the best front-end resource CDN for free! ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update DONT EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE Table of Contents Introduction latest version URL support Contributing API usage Extensions, Plugins, Resources Contributors Sponsors License END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update Introduction This is the main repository to maintain the libraries assets on CDNJS. For our website and API, please refer to the new-website repository. You can find all repositories at CDNJS on GitHub! CDNJS is a free and open source project to organize and provide popular front-end web development resources to developers via a fast CDN infrastructure without usage limitations and fees. We want to help individual library/framework developers distribute their projects, and web developers supercharge their websites! With our great free CDN service, developers can focus on their projects and website development. Developers no longer have to spend time worrying about how to set-up a CDN for projects or website assets. We hope to make web development easier, as well as your websites and the WWW faster and safer. If you love 💖 what we are doing and would like to help us make the project better, please consider the following options: Become a contributor. Help us write documentation, organize issues, add libraries, design our website, propose features, review issues and pull requests, etc. Donate to us on Gratipay, Bountysource, or Tip4Commit. We really appreciate your help. 😊 Currently, CDNJS is rated No. 2 (ref) in web front-end CDN services and has great performance. We fully support https, SPDY, http/2.0, and SRI. These will boost and secure your website with zero configuration. (Note: Youll still need to take care of server-side and application layer security issues. We make it better, but we cant help you too much if you implement a bad practice.) latest version URL support Note that we dont support the feature to use latest in the URL because of the reasons below: Your website might break if there are any compatibility issues or bugs coming from upstream. Its not a good idea to use it in the production environment. Both jQuery CDN and Google CDN dont provide this feature. The latest URL feature also has cache and performance issues. This conflicts with what we are trying to do - make your website load as fast as possible. Security issues have become more and more important nowadays. For example, Great Cannon attacked GitHub via malicious JavaScript (ref1, ref2) during April 2015. One of the techniques to prevent this kind of attack is Subresource Integrity (SRI). We have been supporting this feature for a long time. The latest URL feature, however, totally conflicts with the SRI technique. Contributing To contribute to CDNJS, please refer to CONTRIBUTING.md. It should contain most of the things youll need to get your contribution started! Working on your first Pull Request? Learn how from this free series: How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub API usage See the API page on our website or read: documents/api.md Extensions, Plugins, Resources Extensions, Plugins, Resources Contributors See each repos GitHub contributors graph, e.g. - main repo - website and api - autoupdate tool - atom-extension - tutorials - buildScript - cdnjs-importer or gitstats, git_stats Sponsors CDNJS wouldnt be the success that it is today without our sponsors kind support. These companies currently support CDNJS: Cloudflare DigitalOcean Algolia Heroku If you are interested in becoming a sponsor, please feel free to contact us! License Each library is released under its own license. This CDNJS repository is published under MIT license.