Chart.js Simple HTML5 Charts using the canvas element chartjs.org Installation You can download the latest version of Chart.js from the GitHub releases or use a Chart.js CDN. To install via npm: bash npm install chart.js --save To install via bower: bash bower install chart.js --save Selecting the Correct Build Chart.js provides two different builds for you to choose: Stand-Alone Build, Bundled Build. Stand-Alone Build Files: dist/Chart.js dist/Chart.min.js The stand-alone build includes Chart.js as well as the color parsing library. If this version is used, you are required to include Moment.js before Chart.js for the functionality of the time axis. Bundled Build Files: dist/Chart.bundle.js dist/Chart.bundle.min.js The bundled build includes Moment.js in a single file. You should use this version if you require time axes and want to include a single file. You should not use this build if your application already included Moment.js. Otherwise, Moment.js will be included twice which results in increasing page load time and possible version compatibility issues. The Moment.js version in the bundled build is private to Chart.js so if you want to use Moment.js yourself, its better to use Chart.js (non bundled) and import Moment.js manually. Documentation You can find documentation at www.chartjs.org/docs. The markdown files that build the site are available under /docs. Previous version documentation is available at www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/developers/#previous-versions. Contributing Before submitting an issue or a pull request, please take a moment to look over the contributing guidelines first. For support using Chart.js, please post questions with the chartjs tag on Stack Overflow. Building Instructions on building and testing Chart.js can be found in the documentation. Thanks BrowserStack for allowing our team to test on thousands of browsers. @n8agrin for the Twitter handle donation. License Chart.js is available under the MIT license.