Apollo-11 :crossed_flags: English, Español, Français, Português, 正體中文, 简体中文, 한국어 Original Apollo 11 guidance computer (AGC) source code for Command Module (Comanche055) and Lunar Module (Luminary099). Digitized by the folks at Virtual AGC and MIT Museum. The goal is to be a repo for the original Apollo 11 source code. As such, PRs are welcome for any issues identified between the transcriptions in this repository and the original source scans for Luminary 099 and Comanche 055, as well as any files I may have missed. Contributing Please read CONTRIBUTING.md before opening a pull request. Compiling If you are interested in compiling the original source code, check out Virtual AGC. Attribution | :------------- | :----- Copyright | Public domain Comanche055 | Part of the source code for Colossus 2A, the Command Modules (CM) Apollo Guidance Computer (AGC) for Apollo 11Assemble revision 055 of AGC program Comanche by NASA2021113-051. 10:28 APR. 1, 1969 Luminary099 | Part of the source code for Luminary 1A, the Lunar Modules (LM) Apollo Guidance Computer (AGC) for Apollo 11Assemble revision 001 of AGC program LYM99 by NASA2021112-061. 16:27 JUL. 14, 1969 Assembler | yaYUL Contact | Ron Burkey info@sandroid.org Website | www.ibiblio.org/apollo Digitalization | This source code has been transcribed or otherwise adapted from digitized images of a hardcopy from the MIT Museum. The digitization was performed by Paul Fjeld, and arranged for by Deborah Douglas of the Museum. Many thanks to both. Contract and Approvals Derived from CONTRACT_AND_APPROVALS.agc This AGC program shall also be referred to as Colossus 2A. This program is intended for use in the CM as specified in report R-577. This program was prepared under DSR project 55-23870, sponsored by the Manned Spacecraft Center of The National Aeronautics and Space Administration through contract NAS 9-4065 with the Instrumentation Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass. Submitted by | Role | Date :-------------------- | :--- | :--- Margaret H. Hamilton | Colossus Programming LeaderApollo Guidance and Navigation | 28 Mar 69 Approved by | Role | Date :----------------- | :--- | :--- Daniel J. Lickly | Director, Mission Program DevelopmentApollo Guidance and Navigation Program | 28 Mar 69 Fred H. Martin | Colossus Project ManagerApollo Guidance and Navigation Program | 28 Mar 69 Norman E. Sears | Director, Mission DevelopmentApollo Guidance and Navigation Program | 28 Mar 69 Richard H. Battin | Director, Mission DevelopmentApollo Guidance and Navigation Program | 28 Mar 69 David G. Hoag | DirectorApollo Guidance and Navigation Program | 28 Mar 69 Ralph R. Ragan | Deputy DirectorInstrumentation Laboratory | 28 Mar 69