What is ClojureScript? ClojureScript is a compiler for Clojure that targets JavaScript. It is designed to emit JavaScript code which is compatible with the advanced compilation mode of the Google Closure optimizing compiler. Official web site: http://clojurescript.org Releases and dependency information Latest stable release: 1.10.339 All released versions Leiningen dependency information: [org.clojure/clojurescript "1.10.339"] Maven dependency information: <dependency> <groupId>org.clojure</groupId> <artifactId>clojurescript</artifactId> <version>1.10.339</version> </dependency> Getting Started Compare with JavaScript Try it online Read the Quick Start guide. Read the Documentation. Try a tutorial. Companies using ClojureScript Questions, Feedback? Please point all of your questions and feedback to the Clojure mailing list. There is a community run ClojureScript user mailing list and the IRC channel, #clojurescript on freenode.net, is quite active. There is also a community run Slack channel. The Jira bug/feature tracking application is located at http://dev.clojure.org/jira/browse/CLJS. Before submitting issues please read the Reporting Issues page first. Developers Welcome ClojureScript operates under the same license as Clojure. All contributors must have a signed CA (Contributors Agreement) and submit their patch via the appropriate channels. If youre interested in contributing to the project, please see the contributing page on clojure.org. For more information about working on the compiler and testing check the Developer section of the wiki. YourKit YourKit has given an open source license for their profiler, greatly simplifying the profiling of ClojureScript performance. YourKit supports open source projects with its full-featured Java Profiler. YourKit, LLC is the creator of YourKit Java Profiler and YourKit .NET Profiler, innovative and intelligent tools for profiling Java and .NET applications. License Copyright (c) Rich Hickey. All rights reserved. The use and distribution terms for this software are covered by the Eclipse Public License 1.0 (http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php) which can be found in the file epl-v10.html at the root of this distribution. By using this software in any fashion, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this license. You must not remove this notice, or any other, from this software.