CockroachDB is a cloud-native SQL database for building global, scalable cloud services that survive disasters. /statusIcon.svg) What is CockroachDB? Docs Quickstart Client Drivers Deployment Need Help? Contributing Design Comparison with Other Databases See Also What is CockroachDB? CockroachDB is a distributed SQL database built on a transactional and strongly-consistent key-value store. It scales horizontally; survives disk, machine, rack, and even datacenter failures with minimal latency disruption and no manual intervention; supports strongly-consistent ACID transactions; and provides a familiar SQL API for structuring, manipulating, and querying data. For more details, see our FAQ or architecture document. Heres a quick explainer video: Status CockroachDB is production-ready. See our Roadmap for a list of features planned or in development. Docs For guidance on installation, development, deployment, and administration, see our User Documentation. Quickstart Install CockroachDB. Start a local cluster and talk to it via the built-in SQL client. Learn more about CockroachDB SQL. Use a PostgreSQL-compatible driver or ORM to build an app with CockroachDB. Explore core features, such as data replication, automatic rebalancing, and fault tolerance and recovery. Client Drivers CockroachDB supports the PostgreSQL wire protocol, so you can use any available PostgreSQL client drivers to connect from various languages. For recommended drivers that weve tested, see Install Client Drivers. For tutorials using these drivers, as well as supported ORMs, see Build an App with CockroachDB. Deployment Test Deployment - Easiest way to test an insecure, multi-node CockroachDB cluster. Production Deployments Manual - Steps to deploy a CockroachDB cluster manually on multiple machines. Cloud - Guides for deploying CockroachDB on various cloud platforms. Orchestration - Guides for running CockroachDB with popular open-source orchestration systems. Need Help? Troubleshooting documentation - Learn how to troubleshoot common errors, cluster and node setup, and SQL query behavior, and how to use debug and error logs. CockroachDB Forum and Stack Overflow - Ask questions, find answers, and help other users. Join us on Gitter - This is the most immediate way to connect with CockroachDB engineers. For filing bugs, suggesting improvements, or requesting new features, help us out by opening an issue. Contributing Were an open source project and welcome contributions. See our Contributing Guide for more details. Engineering discussion takes place on our public mailing list, cockroach-db@googlegroups.com. Design For an in-depth discussion of the CockroachDB architecture, see our Architecture Guide. For the original design motivation, see our design doc. Comparison with Other Databases To see how key features of CockroachDB stack up against other databases, visit the CockroachDB in Comparison page on our website. See Also Tech Talks by CockroachDB founders and engineers The CockroachDB User documentation The CockroachDB Blog Key Design documents: Serializable, Lockless, Distributed: Isolation in CockroachDB Consensus, Made Thrive Trust, But Verify: How CockroachDB Checks Replication Living Without Atomic Clocks The CockroachDB Architecture Document