CocoaLumberjack CocoaLumberjack is a fast & simple, yet powerful & flexible logging framework for Mac and iOS. How to get started install via CocoaPods Swift version via CocoaPods ```ruby platform :ios, 8.0 You need to set target when you use CocoaPods 1.0.0 or later. target SampleTarget do use_frameworks! pod CocoaLumberjack/Swift end `` Note:Swift` is a subspec which will include all the Obj-C code plus the Swift one, so this is sufficient. For more details about how to use Swift with Lumberjack, see this conversation. Swift Usage If you installed using CocoaPods or manually: swift import CocoaLumberjack ```swift DDLog.add(DDTTYLogger.sharedInstance) // TTY = Xcode console DDLog.add(DDASLLogger.sharedInstance) // ASL = Apple System Logs let fileLogger: DDFileLogger = DDFileLogger() // File Logger fileLogger.rollingFrequency = TimeInterval(606024) // 24 hours fileLogger.logFileManager.maximumNumberOfLogFiles = 7 DDLog.add(fileLogger) ... DDLogVerbose("Verbose") DDLogDebug("Debug") DDLogInfo("Info") DDLogWarn("Warn") DDLogError("Error") ``` Obj-C version via CocoaPods ruby platform :ios, 7.0 pod CocoaLumberjack Obj-C usage If youre using Lumberjack as a framework, you can @import CocoaLumberjack. Otherwise, #import <CocoaLumberjack/CocoaLumberjack.h> ```objc [DDLog addLogger:[DDTTYLogger sharedInstance]]; // TTY = Xcode console [DDLog addLogger:[DDASLLogger sharedInstance]]; // ASL = Apple System Logs DDFileLogger *fileLogger = [[DDFileLogger alloc] init]; // File Logger fileLogger.rollingFrequency = 60 * 60 * 24; // 24 hour rolling fileLogger.logFileManager.maximumNumberOfLogFiles = 7; [DDLog addLogger:fileLogger]; ... DDLogVerbose(@"Verbose"); DDLogDebug(@"Debug"); DDLogInfo(@"Info"); DDLogWarn(@"Warn"); DDLogError(@"Error"); ``` Installation with Carthage (iOS 8+) Carthage is a lightweight dependency manager for Swift and Objective-C. It leverages CocoaTouch modules and is less invasive than CocoaPods. To install with Carthage, follow the instruction on Carthage Cartfile github "CocoaLumberjack/CocoaLumberjack" or install manually read the Getting started guide, check out the FAQ section or the other docs if you find issues or want to suggest improvements, create an issue or a pull request for all kinds of questions involving CocoaLumberjack, use the Google group or StackOverflow (use #lumberjack). CocoaLumberjack 3 Migrating to 3.x To be determined Features Lumberjack is Fast & Simple, yet Powerful & Flexible. It is similar in concept to other popular logging frameworks such as log4j, yet is designed specifically for Objective-C, and takes advantage of features such as multi-threading, grand central dispatch (if available), lockless atomic operations, and the dynamic nature of the Objective-C runtime. Lumberjack is Fast In most cases it is an order of magnitude faster than NSLog. Lumberjack is Simple It takes as little as a single line of code to configure lumberjack when your application launches. Then simply replace your NSLog statements with DDLog statements and thats about it. (And the DDLog macros have the exact same format and syntax as NSLog, so its super easy.) Lumberjack is Powerful: One log statement can be sent to multiple loggers, meaning you can log to a file and the console simultaneously. Want more? Create your own loggers (its easy) and send your log statements over the network. Or to a database or distributed file system. The sky is the limit. Lumberjack is Flexible: Configure your logging however you want. Change log levels per file (perfect for debugging). Change log levels per logger (verbose console, but concise log file). Change log levels per xcode configuration (verbose debug, but concise release). Have your log statements compiled out of the release build. Customize the number of log levels for your application. Add your own fine-grained logging. Dynamically change log levels during runtime. Choose how & when you want your log files to be rolled. Upload your log files to a central server. Compress archived log files to save disk space... This framework is for you if: Youre looking for a way to track down that impossible-to-reproduce bug that keeps popping up in the field. Youre frustrated with the super short console log on the iPhone. Youre looking to take your application to the next level in terms of support and stability. Youre looking for an enterprise level logging solution for your application (Mac or iPhone). Documentation Get started using Lumberjack Different log levels for Debug and Release builds Different log levels for each logger Use colors in the Xcode debugging console Write your own custom formatters FAQ Analysis of performance with benchmarks Common issues you may encounter and their solutions AppCode support Full Lumberjack documentation Requirements The current version of Lumberjack requires: - Xcode 9 or later - Swift 4.0 or later - iOS 6 or later - OS X 10.8 or later - WatchOS 2 or later - TVOS 9 or later Backwards compability for iOS 5 and OS X 10.7, use the 3.3 version for Xcode 8 and Swift 3, use the 3.2 version for Xcode 7.3 and Swift 2.3, use the 2.4.0 version for Xcode 7.3 and Swift 2.2, use the 2.3.0 version for Xcode 7.2 and 7.1, use the 2.2.0 version for Xcode 7.0 or earlier, use the 2.1.0 version for Xcode 6 or earlier, use the 2.0.x version for OS X < 10.7 support, use the 1.6.0 version Communication If you need help, use Stack Overflow. (Tag lumberjack) If youd like to ask a general question, use Stack Overflow. If you found a bug, open an issue. If you have a feature request, open an issue. If you want to contribute, submit a pull request. Author Robbie Hanson Love the project? Wanna buy me a coffee? (or a beer :D) Collaborators Ernesto Rivera Dmitry Vorobyov Bogdan Poplauschi C.W. Betts License CocoaLumberjack is available under the BSD license. See the LICENSE file. Architecture