cocos2d-x |Win32|Others| | ----|------| | cocos2d-x is a multi-platform framework for building 2d games, interactive books, demos and other graphical applications. It is based on cocos2d-iphone, but instead of using Objective-C, it uses C++. It works on iOS, Android, OS X, Windows, Linux and Web platforms. Cocos2d-x Framework Architecture: cocos2d-x is: Fast Free Easy to use Community supported Git user attention Clone the repo from GitHub. $ git clone https://github.com/cocos2d/cocos2d-x.git After cloning the repo, please execute download-deps.py to download and install dependencies. $ cd cocos2d-x cocos2d-x $ python download-deps.py After running download-deps.py. cocos2d-x $ git submodule update --init Download stable versions Cocos2d-x stable versions Cocos2d-JS Lite version How to start a new game Download the code from cocos2d download site or clone this repo (instructions above) Run setup.py Run the cocos script Example: $ cd cocos2d-x $ ./setup.py $ source FILE_TO_SAVE_SYSTEM_VARIABLE $ cocos new MyGame -p com.your_company.mygame -l cpp -d NEW_PROJECTS_DIR $ cd NEW_PROJECTS_DIR/MyGame You can also create a JS project or Lua project with -l js or -l lua. Build and run a new project for Android Cocos2d-x supports Android Studio. Simple open the proj.android directory from within the Android Studio environment. More information can be found in our documentation. Build and run a new project for iOS $ cocos run -p ios Build and run a new project for OSX $ cocos run -p mac Build and run a new project for Linux If you never run cocos2d-x on Linux, you need to install all dependencies by the script in cocos2d/build/install-deps-linux.sh $ cd cocos2d-x/build $ ./install-deps-linux.sh Then $ cd NEW_PROJECTS_DIR/MyGame $ cocos run -p linux Run $ bin/MyGame Build and run new project for win32 $ cocos run -p win32 Build and run new project for web Only JS project can be published to web platforms, so you will need to create a JS project first: $ cocos new -l js WebGame Then you can run your game in a web browser: $ cocos run -p web Or you can publish your game to publish/html5/ folder: $ cocos run -p web -m release [--advanced] Using CMake Cocos2d-x supports CMake, a cross-platform build system. Example usage: $ cd cocos2d-x $ mkdir cmake-build && cd cmake-build $ cmake .. Detail CMake Guide Documentations and samples All Docs in a single place! Online API Reference Note that Cocos2d-x, Cocos2d-JS and Cocos Creator have different API set Programmers Guide Latest Release Note Changelog Main features Scene management (workflow) Transitions between scenes Sprites and Sprite Sheets Effects: Lens, Ripple, Waves, Liquid, etc. Actions (behaviours): Transformation Actions: Move, Rotate, Scale, Fade, Tint, etc. Composable actions: Sequence, Spawn, Repeat, Reverse Ease Actions: Exp, Sin, Cubic, Elastic, etc. Misc actions: CallFunc, OrbitCamera, Follow, Tween Basic menus and buttons Integrated with physics engines: Box2d and Chipmunk Particle system Skeleton Animations: Spine and Armature support Fonts: Fast font rendering using Fixed and Variable width fonts Support for .ttf fonts Tile Map support: Orthogonal, Isometric and Hexagonal Parallax scrolling Motion Streak Render To Texture Touch/Accelerometer on mobile devices Touch/Mouse/Keyboard on desktop Sound Engine support (CocosDenshion library) based on OpenAL Integrated Slow motion/Fast forward Fast and compressed textures: PVR compressed and uncompressed textures, ETC1 compressed textures, and more Resolution Independent Language: C++, with Lua and JavaScript bindings Open Source Commercial Friendly(MIT): Compatible with open and closed source projects OpenGL ES 2.0 (mobile) / OpenGL 2.1 (desktop) based Build Requirements Mac OS X 10.7+, Xcode 8+ or Ubuntu 14.04+, CMake 3.1+ or Windows 7+, VS 2015 Python 2.7.5+(NOT Python 3) NDK r16+ is required to build Android games Android Studio 3.0.0+ to build Android games(tested with 3.0.0) JRE or JDK 1.6+ is required for web publishing Runtime Requirements iOS 8.0+ for iPhone / iPad games Android 3.0.0+ for Android OS X v10.9+ for Mac games Windows 7+ for Win games Modern browsers and IE 9+ for web games Running Tests Select the test you want from Xcode Scheme chooser. Cocos Console ``` // Enter cpp test folder cd tests/cpp-tests // Or enter js test folder cd tests/js-tests // Or enter lua test folder cd tests/lua-tests // Compile or run test case cocos compile -p ios|mac|android|win32|win8_1|metro|web -m debug|release cocos run -p ios|mac|android|win32|win8_1|metro|web -m debug|release ``` For OS X / iOS $ cd cocos2d-x/build $ open cocos2d_tests.xcodeproj For Linux $ cd cocos2d-x/build $ ./install-deps-linux.sh $ mkdir linux-build $ cd linux-build $ cmake ../.. Run Samples $ bin/Debug/cpp-empty-test/cpp-empty-test or $ bin/Debug/lua-empty-test/lua-empty-test You may meet building errors when building libGLFW.so. It is because libGL.so directs to an error target, you should make it to direct to a correct one. install-deps-linux.sh only has to be run once. For Windows Open the cocos2d-x/build/cocos2d-win32.sln For Android $ cd cocos2d-x/build $ python ./android-build.py cpp-empty-test -p 14 $ adb install ../tests/cpp-empty-test/proj.android/bin/CppEmptyTest-debug.apk Then click item on Android device to run tests. Available value of -p is the API level, cocos2d-x supports from level 14. Or you can import the project located at tests/cpp-empty-test/proj.android using Android Studio 3.0.0+. Learning Resources Programmers Guide Sonar Systems Videos Android Fundamentals Make School Tutorials Games From Scratch Cocos2d sample games Spreading the word! You can help us spread the word about cocos2d-x! We would surely appreciate it! Talk about us on Facebook! Our Facebook Page Tweet, Tweet! Our Twitter Read our Blog and promote it on your social media. Become a Regional Coordinator See what we are planning! You can see exactly what we are planning to do with the Cocos family of products. Cocos2d-x roadmap Where to get help English Forums 中文社区 Bug Tracker API Reference. Latest Release Note Changelog IRC. We are in Freenode in the #cocos2d channel cpp-tests project. This project is our basis for testing. Use this project to learn how we implement the functionality of the engine. This project is located in cocos2d-x_root/build. Contributing to the Project Cocos2d-x is licensed under the MIT License. We welcome participation! Did you find a bug? Do you have feature request? Do you want to merge a feature? contributing to cocos2d-x Contact us Forum: http://discuss.cocos2d-x.org Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/cocos2dx Weibo: http://t.sina.com.cn/cocos2dx