Træfik is a modern HTTP reverse proxy and load balancer that makes deploying microservices easy. Træfik integrates with your existing infrastructure components (Docker, Swarm mode, Kubernetes, Marathon, Consul, Etcd, Rancher, Amazon ECS, ...) and configures itself automatically and dynamically. Pointing Træfik at your orchestrator should be the only configuration step you need. . Overview . Features . Supported backends . Quickstart . Web UI . Test it . Documentation . . Support . Release cycle . Contributing . Maintainers . Plumbing . Credits . Overview Imagine that you have deployed a bunch of microservices with the help of an orchestrator (like Swarm or Kubernetes) or a service registry (like etcd or consul). Now you want users to access these microservices, and you need a reverse proxy. Traditional reverse-proxies require that you configure each route that will connect paths and subdomains to each microservice. In an environment where you add, remove, kill, upgrade, or scale your services many times a day, the task of keeping the routes up to date becomes tedious. This is when Træfik can help you! Træfik listens to your service registry/orchestrator API and instantly generates the routes so your microservices are connected to the outside world -- without further intervention from your part. Run Træfik and let it do the work for you! (But if youd rather configure some of your routes manually, Træfik supports that too!) Features Continuously updates its configuration (No restarts!) Supports multiple load balancing algorithms Provides HTTPS to your microservices by leveraging Lets Encrypt (wildcard certificates support) Circuit breakers, retry High Availability with cluster mode (beta) See the magic through its clean web UI Websocket, HTTP/2, GRPC ready Provides metrics (Rest, Prometheus, Datadog, Statsd, InfluxDB) Keeps access logs (JSON, CLF) Fast Exposes a Rest API Packaged as a single binary file (made with :heart: with go) and available as a tiny official docker image Supported Backends Docker / Swarm mode Kubernetes Mesos / Marathon Rancher (API, Metadata) Azure Service Fabric Consul Catalog Consul / Etcd / Zookeeper / BoltDB Eureka Amazon ECS Amazon DynamoDB File Rest Quickstart To get your hands on Træfik, you can use the 5-Minute Quickstart in our documentation (you will need Docker). Alternatively, if you dont want to install anything on your computer, you can try Træfik online in this great Katacoda tutorial that shows how to load balance requests between multiple Docker containers. If you are looking for a more comprehensive and real use-case example, you can also check Play-With-Docker to see how to load balance between multiple nodes. Web UI You can access the simple HTML frontend of Træfik. Documentation You can find the complete documentation at https://docs.traefik.io. A collection of contributions around Træfik can be found at https://awesome.traefik.io. Support To get community support, you can: - join the Træfik community Slack channel: - use Stack Overflow (using the traefik tag) If you need commercial support, please contact Containo.us by mail: support@containo.us. Download Grab the latest binary from the releases page and run it with the sample configuration file: shell ./traefik --configFile=traefik.toml Or use the official tiny Docker image and run it with the sample configuration file: shell docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -p 80:80 -v $PWD/traefik.toml:/etc/traefik/traefik.toml traefik Or get the sources: shell git clone https://github.com/containous/traefik Introductory Videos Here is a talk given by Emile Vauge at GopherCon 2017. You will learn Træfik basics in less than 10 minutes. Here is a talk given by Ed Robinson at ContainerCamp UK conference. You will learn fundamental Træfik features and see some demos with Kubernetes. Maintainers Information about process and maintainers Contributing If youd like to contribute to the project, refer to the contributing documentation. Please note that this project is released with a Contributor Code of Conduct. By participating in this project, you agree to abide by its terms. Release Cycle We release a new version (e.g. 1.1.0, 1.2.0, 1.3.0) every other month. Release Candidates are available before the release (e.g. 1.1.0-rc1, 1.1.0-rc2, 1.1.0-rc3, 1.1.0-rc4, before 1.1.0) Bug-fixes (e.g. 1.1.1, 1.1.2, 1.2.1, 1.2.3) are released as needed (no additional features are delivered in those versions, bug-fixes only) Each version is supported until the next one is released (e.g. 1.1.x will be supported until 1.2.0 is out) We use Semantic Versioning Plumbing Oxy: an awesome proxy library made by Mailgun folks Gorilla mux: famous request router Negroni: web middlewares made simple Lego: the best Lets Encrypt library in go Credits Kudos to Peka for his awesome work on the logo . Traefiks logo is licensed under the Creative Commons 3.0 Attributions license. Traefiks logo was inspired by the gopher stickers made by Takuya Ueda (https://twitter.com/tenntenn). The original Go gopher was designed by Renee French (http://reneefrench.blogspot.com/).