Material Welcome to Material, a UI/UX framework for creating beautiful applications. Materials animation system has been completely reworked to take advantage of Motion, a library dedicated to animations and transitions. Photos Sample Take a look at a sample Photos project to get started. Sample Projects Take a look at Sample Projects to get your projects started. Features [x] Completely Customizable [x] Motion Animations & Transitions [x] Layout Tools for AutoLayout & Grid Systems [x] Color Library [x] Cards [x] FABMenu [x] Icons [x] TextField [x] Snackbar [x] Tabs [x] Chips [x] SearchBar [x] NavigationController [x] NavigationDrawer [x] BottomNavigationBar [x] Sample Projects [x] And More... Requirements iOS 8.0+ Xcode 8.0+ Communication If you need help, use Stack Overflow. (Tag cosmicmind) If youd like to ask a general question, use Stack Overflow. If you found a bug, and can provide steps to reliably reproduce it, open an issue. If you have a feature request, open an issue. If you want to contribute, submit a pull request. Installation Embedded frameworks require a minimum deployment target of iOS 8+. - Download Material Read Material - Its time to download to learn how to install Material & Motion using GitHub, CocoaPods, and Carthage. Change Log Material is a growing project and will encounter changes throughout its development. It is recommended that the Change Log be reviewed prior to updating versions. Icons Icons is a library of Google and CosmicMind icons that are available for use within your iOS applications. Learn More Colors Try the Material Colors app to see the wonderful colors available in Material, or use the online version at MaterialColor.com. Material Colors iOS App TextField A TextField is an excellent way to improve UX. It allows for a placeholder and additional hint details. TextField Sample Button A button is used to trigger an action through a touch event. Material comes with a foundational button, and 4 specialized buttons that can be stylized in any way. Button Sample Switch A switch is a control component that toggles between on and off states. Switch Sample Card A Card is a flexible component that may be configured in any way you like. It has a Toolbar, Bar, and content area that may utilize any UIView type. Card Sample ImageCard An ImageCard is an expansion of the base Card. The Toolbar overlays an image area that sits above the dynamic content area. ImageCard Sample PresenterCard The PresenterCard is a completely new card style. It allows for a primary presentation area that may be any UIView type in addition to the content area, Toolbar, and Bar components. The options for this card are endless. PresenterCard Sample FABMenu A FABMenu manages a collection of views. A new MenuItem type has been added that manages a title and button to improve UX and visual beauty. FABMenu Sample Toolbar Toolbars are super flexible and add excellent control to your navigation flow. They manage a set of left and right views with auto aligning title and detail labels. Toolbar Sample SearchBar A SearchBar is a powerful navigation tool that allows for users input with an instant visual response. A set of left and right views may be added to expand functionality. SearchBar Sample Tabs Tabs is a new component that links a customizable TabBar to a stack of view controllers making a powerful and visually pleasing component to have in any application. Tabs Sample NavigationController A NavigationController is a specialized view controller that manages a hierarchy of content efficiently, making it easier for users to move within an application. NavigationController Sample NavigationDrawer A NavigationDrawer slides in from the left or right and contains the navigation destinations for your application. NavigationDrawer Sample Snackbar A Snackbar is a new component that is very simple in its behavior and very powerful in its message. It can be used application wide, or isolated to specific view controllers. Snackbar Sample Sticker Sheet To help template your project, checkout Material Sticker Sheet. Material Sticker Sheet Much More... So much more inside. Enjoy! License Copyright (C) 2015 - 2018, Daniel Dahan and CosmicMind, Inc. http://cosmicmind.com. All rights reserved. Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. Neither the name of CosmicMind nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.