Crystal Crystal is a programming language with the following goals: Have a syntax similar to Ruby (but compatibility with it is not a goal) Statically type-checked but without having to specify the type of variables or method arguments. Be able to call C code by writing bindings to it in Crystal. Have compile-time evaluation and generation of code, to avoid boilerplate code. Compile to efficient native code. Why? We love Rubys efficiency for writing code. We love Cs efficiency for running code. We want the best of both worlds. We want the compiler to understand what we mean without having to specify types everywhere. We want full OOP. Oh, and we dont want to write C code to make the code run faster. Project Status Crystal is still under heavy development. There can be breaking changes but were trying to keep them as minimum as possible. The development is possible thanks to the communitys effort, 84codes support, and every BountySource supporter. Installing Follow these instructions Try it online play.crystal-lang.org Documentation Official docs Standard library API Roadmap Community Questions or suggestions? Ask in our Google Group, join our IRC channel #crystal-lang at chat.freenode.net, ask on our Gitter channel or ask on Stack Overflow under the crystal-lang tag. Contributing Read the general Contributing guide, and then: Fork it ( https://github.com/crystal-lang/crystal/fork ) Create your feature branch (git checkout -b my-new-feature) Commit your changes (git commit -am Add some feature) Push to the branch (git push origin my-new-feature) Create a new Pull Request