Animate.css Just-add-water CSS animation animate.css is a bunch of cool, fun, and cross-browser animations for you to use in your projects. Great for emphasis, home pages, sliders, and general just-add-water-awesomeness. Installation To install via Bower, simply do the following: bash $ bower install animate.css --save or you can install via npm: bash $ npm install animate.css --save Basic Usage Include the stylesheet on your documents <head> html <head> <link rel="stylesheet" href="animate.min.css"> </head> Instead of installing you may use the remote version (hosted by CDNJS): html <head> <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/animate.css@3.5.2/animate.min.css"> <!-- or --> <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/animate.css/3.5.2/animate.min.css"> </head> You may generate a SRI hash of that particular version and then use it to ensure the files integrity; also you can make anonymous requests to CDN by setting the corresponding crossorigin attribute: html <head> <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/animate.css@3.5.2/animate.min.css" integrity="sha384-OHBBOqpYHNsIqQy8hL1U+8OXf9hH6QRxi0+EODezv82DfnZoV7qoHAZDwMwEJvSw" crossorigin="anonymous"> <!-- or --> <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/animate.css/3.5.2/animate.min.css" integrity="sha384-OHBBOqpYHNsIqQy8hL1U+8OXf9hH6QRxi0+EODezv82DfnZoV7qoHAZDwMwEJvSw" crossorigin="anonymous"> </head> Add the class animated to the element you want to animate. You may also want to include the class infinite for an infinite loop. Finally you need to add one of the following classes: | Class Name | | | | | ----------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- | -------------------- | | bounce | flash | pulse | rubberBand | | shake | headShake | swing | tada | | wobble | jello | bounceIn | bounceInDown | | bounceInLeft | bounceInRight | bounceInUp | bounceOut | | bounceOutDown | bounceOutLeft | bounceOutRight | bounceOutUp | | fadeIn | fadeInDown | fadeInDownBig | fadeInLeft | | fadeInLeftBig | fadeInRight | fadeInRightBig | fadeInUp | | fadeInUpBig | fadeOut | fadeOutDown | fadeOutDownBig | | fadeOutLeft | fadeOutLeftBig | fadeOutRight | fadeOutRightBig | | fadeOutUp | fadeOutUpBig | flipInX | flipInY | | flipOutX | flipOutY | lightSpeedIn | lightSpeedOut | | rotateIn | rotateInDownLeft | rotateInDownRight | rotateInUpLeft | | rotateInUpRight | rotateOut | rotateOutDownLeft | rotateOutDownRight | | rotateOutUpLeft | rotateOutUpRight | hinge | jackInTheBox | | rollIn | rollOut | zoomIn | zoomInDown | | zoomInLeft | zoomInRight | zoomInUp | zoomOut | | zoomOutDown | zoomOutLeft | zoomOutRight | zoomOutUp | | slideInDown | slideInLeft | slideInRight | slideInUp | | slideOutDown | slideOutLeft | slideOutRight | slideOutUp | Full example: html <h1 class="animated infinite bounce">Example</h1> Check out all the animations here! Usage To use animate.css in your website, simply drop the stylesheet into your documents <head>, and add the class animated to an element, along with any of the animation names. Thats it! Youve got a CSS animated element. Super! html <head> <link rel="stylesheet" href="animate.min.css"> </head> or use the version hosted by CDNJS html <head> <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/animate.css/3.5.2/animate.min.css"> </head> You can do a whole bunch of other stuff with animate.css when you combine it with jQuery or add your own CSS rules. Dynamically add animations using jQuery with ease: javascript $(#yourElement).addClass(animated bounceOutLeft); You can also detect when an animation ends: Before you make changes to this file, you should know that $(#yourElement).one() is *NOT A TYPO* http://api.jquery.com/one/ ```javascript // See https://github.com/daneden/animate.css/issues/644 var animationEnd = (function(el) { var animations = { animation: animationend, OAnimation: oAnimationEnd, MozAnimation: mozAnimationEnd, WebkitAnimation: webkitAnimationEnd, }; for (var t in animations) { if (el.style[t] !== undefined) { return animations[t]; } } })(document.createElement(div)); $(#yourElement).one(animationEnd, doSomething); ``` View a video tutorial on how to use Animate.css with jQuery here. Note: jQuery.one() is used when you want to execute the event handler at most once. More information here. You can also extend jQuery to add a function that does it all for you: ```javascript $.fn.extend({ animateCss: function(animationName, callback) { var animationEnd = (function(el) { var animations = { animation: animationend, OAnimation: oAnimationEnd, MozAnimation: mozAnimationEnd, WebkitAnimation: webkitAnimationEnd, }; for (var t in animations) { if (el.style[t] !== undefined) { return animations[t]; } } })(document.createElement(div)); this.addClass(animated + animationName).one(animationEnd, function() { $(this).removeClass(animated + animationName); if (typeof callback === function) callback(); }); return this; }, }); ``` And use it like this: javascript $(#yourElement).animateCss(bounce); or; $(#yourElement).animateCss(bounce, function() { // Do somthing after animation }); You can change the duration of your animations, add a delay or change the number of times that it plays: ```css yourElement { -vendor-animation-duration: 3s; -vendor-animation-delay: 2s; -vendor-animation-iteration-count: infinite; } ``` Note: be sure to replace "vendor" in the CSS with the applicable vendor prefixes (webkit, moz, etc) Custom Builds Animate.css is powered by gulp.js, and you can create custom builds pretty easily. First of all, youll need Gulp and all other dependencies: sh $ cd path/to/animate.css/ $ sudo npm install Next, run gulp to compile your custom builds. For example, if you want only some of the “attention seekers”, simply edit the animate-config.json file to select only the animations you want to use. javascript "attention_seekers": { "bounce": true, "flash": false, "pulse": false, "shake": true, "headShake": true, "swing": true, "tada": true, "wobble": true, "jello":true } License Animate.css is licensed under the MIT license. (http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) Contributing Pull requests are the way to go here. I apologise in advance for the slow action on pull requests and issues. I only have two rules for submitting a pull request: match the naming convention (camelCase, categorised [fades, bounces, etc]) and let us see a demo of submitted animations in a pen. That last one is important.