dc.js Dimensional charting built to work natively with crossfilter rendered using d3.js. In dc.js, each chart displays an aggregation of some attributes through the position, size, and color of its elements, and also presents a dimension which can be filtered. When the filter or brush changes, all other charts are updated dynamically, using animated transitions. Check out the example page and its annotated source for a quick five minute how-to guide. The detailed API reference is here (markdown version). For more examples and hints please visit the Wiki. Support Example Site Changelog Frequently Asked Questions and Wiki v3.0 API Reference (markdown) (last - v2.1) dc.js on StackOverflow - ask questions and get help User Group ("mailing list") - discussion and longer topics GitHub Issues - bug reports and feature requests Please direct questions and support requests to Stack Overflow or the user group. When posting to Stack Overflow, use the [dc.js] and/or [crossfilter] tags - other tags are likely to draw unwanted attention. Get help faster with a working example! Fork these to get started: example jsFiddle - blank jsFiddle - example bl.ock - blank bl.ock Versioning Version 3. is compatible with d3 versions 4 and 5. Use dc.js 2. if you still need compatibility with d3 version 3. CDN location http://unpkg.com/dc@3/dc.js http://unpkg.com/dc@3/dc.css or copy the latest links from CDNJS Install with npm npm install dc Install with bower bower install dcjs Install without npm Download d3.js crossfilter.js dc.js - stable dc.js - bleeding edge (master) How to build dc.js locally Prerequisite modules Make sure the following packages are installed on your machine node.js npm Install dependencies dc.js$ npm install Build and Test dc.js$ grunt test Developing dc.js Start the development server dc.js$ grunt server Jasmine specs are hosted at http://localhost:8888/spec The stock example is at http://localhost:8888/web More examples are at http://localhost:8888/web/examples License dc.js is an open source javascript library and licensed under Apache License v2.