PhotoSwipe Repository JavaScript image gallery for mobile and desktop. Documentation and getting started guide. Demo and script home page. NPM npm install photoswipe. Bower bower install photoswipe. Location of files Compiled PhotoSwipe JS and CSS files, SVG and PNG sprites are in the dist/ folder. Source files (.JS and .SCSS) are in the src/ folder. Note that PhotoSwipe uses Autoprefixer when compiling SASS files. Demo website is in the website/ folder. Documentation markdown files are in website/documentation/. Plugins / extensions / addons Ruby gem. Ember.js addons: ember-photoswipe, ember-cli-photoswipe. Eager app. Koken CMS plugin. Orchard CMS module. Yellow CMS plugin. Kirby CMS plugin. Drupal CMF module. ProcessWire CMS module. SPIP CMS module. Fork CMS MediaLibrary widget. Coded something useful? Email me and Ill post a link to it here. Build To compile PhotoSwipe by yourself, make sure that you have Node.js, Grunt.js, Ruby and Jekyll installed, then: 1) Clone the repository git clone https://github.com/dimsemenov/PhotoSwipe.git 2) Go inside the PhotoSwipe folder that you fetched and install Node dependencies cd PhotoSwipe && npm install 3) Run grunt to generate the JS and CSS files in the dist folder and the site in the _site/ folder grunt Optionally: Run grunt watch to automatically rebuild files (JS, CSS, demo website and documentation) when you change files in src/ or in website/. Run grunt nosite to build just JS and CSS files (output is folder dist/). Run grunt pswpbuild to build just JS files. Param --pswp-exclude allows to exclude modules, for example grunt pswpbuild --pswp-exclude=history will exclude history module. Using PhotoSwipe? If youve used PhotoSwipe in some interesting way, or on the site of a popular brand, Id be very grateful if you shoot me a link to it. License Script is licensed under MIT license with one exception: Do not create a public WordPress plugin based on it, as I will develop it. If you need to use it for a public WordPress plugin right now, please ask me by email first. Thanks! Attribution is not required, but much appreciated, especially if youre making a product for developers. About PhotoSwipe 4.0+ is developed by Dmitry Semenov. But initially script was created in 2011 by Code Computerlove, a digital agency in Manchester, they passed on development in March 2014. You can view source and documentation of old PhotoSwipe (<4.0) in history of this repo.