Discourse is the 100% open source discussion platform built for the next decade of the Internet. Use it as a: mailing list discussion forum long-form chat room To learn more about the philosophy and goals of the project, visit discourse.org. Screenshots Browse lots more notable Discourse instances. Development If youre brand new to Ruby and Rails, please see Discourse as Your First Rails App. If youre familiar with how Rails works and are comfortable setting up your own environment, use our Discourse Advanced Developer Guide. Before you get started, ensure you have the following minimum versions: Ruby 2.3+, PostgreSQL 9.3+, Redis 2.6+. If youre having trouble, please see our TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE first! Setting up Discourse If you want to set up a Discourse forum for production use, see our Discourse Install Guide. If youre looking for business class hosting, see discourse.org/buy. Requirements Discourse is built for the next 10 years of the Internet, so our requirements are high: | Browsers | Tablets | Phones | | -------- | ------- | ----------- | | Safari 6.1+ | iPad 3+ | iOS 8+ | | Google Chrome 32+ | Android 4.3+ | Android 4.3+ | | Internet Explorer 11+ | | | | Firefox 27+ | | | Built With Ruby on Rails — Our back end API is a Rails app. It responds to requests RESTfully in JSON. Ember.js — Our front end is an Ember.js app that communicates with the Rails API. PostgreSQL — Our main data store is in Postgres. Redis — We use Redis as a cache and for transient data. Plus lots of Ruby Gems, a complete list of which is at /master/Gemfile. Contributing Discourse is 100% free and open source. We encourage and support an active, healthy community that accepts contributions from the public – including you! Before contributing to Discourse: Please read the complete mission statements on discourse.org. Yes we actually believe this stuff; you should too. Read and sign the Electronic Discourse Forums Contribution License Agreement. Dig into CONTRIBUTING.MD, which covers submitting bugs, requesting new features, preparing your code for a pull request, etc. Always strive to collaborate with mutual respect. Not sure what to work on? Weve got some ideas. We look forward to seeing your pull requests! Security We take security very seriously at Discourse; all our code is 100% open source and peer reviewed. Please read our security guide for an overview of security measures in Discourse, or if you wish to report a security issue. The Discourse Team The original Discourse code contributors can be found in AUTHORS.MD. For a complete list of the many individuals that contributed to the design and implementation of Discourse, please refer to the official Discourse blog and GitHubs list of contributors. Copyright / License Copyright 2014 - 2018 Civilized Discourse Construction Kit, Inc. Licensed under the GNU General Public License Version 2.0 (or later); you may not use this work except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. Discourse logo and “Discourse Forum” ®, Civilized Discourse Construction Kit, Inc. Dedication Discourse is built with love, Internet style.