Docker Compose Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. With Compose, you use a Compose file to configure your applications services. Then, using a single command, you create and start all the services from your configuration. To learn more about all the features of Compose see the list of features. Compose is great for development, testing, and staging environments, as well as CI workflows. You can learn more about each case in Common Use Cases. Using Compose is basically a three-step process. Define your apps environment with a Dockerfile so it can be reproduced anywhere. Define the services that make up your app in docker-compose.yml so they can be run together in an isolated environment. Lastly, run docker-compose up and Compose will start and run your entire app. A docker-compose.yml looks like this: version: 2 services: web: build: . ports: - "5000:5000" volumes: - .:/code redis: image: redis For more information about the Compose file, see the Compose file reference Compose has commands for managing the whole lifecycle of your application: Start, stop and rebuild services View the status of running services Stream the log output of running services Run a one-off command on a service Installation and documentation Full documentation is available on Dockers website. If you have any questions, you can talk in real-time with other developers in the #docker-compose IRC channel on Freenode. Click here to join using IRCCloud. Code repository for Compose is on GitHub If you find any problems please fill out an issue Contributing Want to help build Compose? Check out our contributing documentation. Releasing Releases are built by maintainers, following an outline of the release process.