Kitematic is a simple application for managing Docker containers on Mac, Linux and Windows. Installing Kitematic Download the latest version of Kitematic via the github release page. Documentation Kitematics documentation and other information can be found at http://kitematic.com/docs. Security Disclosure Security is very important to us. If you have any issue regarding security, please disclose the information responsibly by sending an email to security@docker.com and not by creating a github issue. Bugs and Feature Requests Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the Issue Guidelines and search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, please open a new issue. Roadmap & Contributing We welcome all pull requests and contributions that anyone would like to make. The Kitematic team is super happy to support anyone who wants to get involved. Please checkout our roadmap that we keep up to date for ideas to help you with contributing. We would love to talk to you about contributing. Please read through our Contributing Guidelines. Included are directions for opening issues, coding standards, and notes on development. Community Ask questions on our user forum. #kitematic on IRC. Join the channel. Follow @kitematic on Twitter. Uninstalling Mac Remove Kitematic.app Remove any unwanted Virtual Machines in VirtualBox ```bash remove app data rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Kitematic ``` Windows Open Programs and Features from Control Panel Uninstall Kitematic Uninstall Oracle VM VirtualBox Copyright and License Code released under the Apache license. Images are copyrighted by Docker, Inc.