Dokku Docker powered mini-Heroku. The smallest PaaS implementation youve ever seen. Sponsors See our list of past sponsors in the SPONSORS file. Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Requirements A fresh VM running any of the following operating systems: Ubuntu 16.04 x64 Ubuntu 14.04 x64 Debian 8.2 x64 CentOS 7 x64 (experimental) Arch Linux x64 (experimental) Installation To install the latest stable release, run the following commands as a user who has access to sudo: shell wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dokku/dokku/v0.12.10/bootstrap.sh sudo DOKKU_TAG=v0.12.10 bash bootstrap.sh You can then proceed to the ip address or domain name associated with your server to complete the web-based installation. If you wish for a more unattended installation method, see these docs. Upgrade View the docs for upgrading from an older version of Dokku. Documentation Full documentation - including advanced installation docs - are available online at http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/. Support You can use Github Issues, check Troubleshooting in the documentation, or join us on freenode in #dokku. Contribution After checking Github Issues, the Troubleshooting Guide or having a chat with us on freenode in #dokku, feel free to fork and create a Pull Request. While we may not merge your PR as is, they serve to start conversations and improve the general Dokku experience for all users. License MIT License © Jeff Lindsay