DesignPatternsPHP Read the Docs of DesignPatternsPHP or Download as PDF/Epub This is a collection of known design patterns and some sample code how to implement them in PHP. Every pattern has a small list of examples (most of them from Zend Framework, Symfony2 or Doctrine2 as Im most familiar with this software). I think the problem with patterns is that often people do know them but dont know when to apply which. Installation You should look at and run the tests to see what happens in the example. To do this, you should install dependencies with Composer first: bash $ composer install Read more about how to install and use Composer on your local machine here. To run the tests use phpunit: bash $ ./vendor/bin/phpunit using Docker (optional) You can optionally run tests using Docker for Mac or Windows or native one for Linux. Just run: bash $ docker-compose up To only install the dependencies, use docker-compose like this: bash $ docker-compose run composer install Patterns The patterns can be structured in roughly three different categories. Please click on the :notebook: for a full explanation of the pattern on Wikipedia. Creational AbstractFactory :notebook: Builder :notebook: FactoryMethod :notebook: Multiton (is considered an anti-pattern! :no_entry:) Pool :notebook: Prototype :notebook: SimpleFactory Singleton :notebook: (is considered an anti-pattern! :no_entry:) StaticFactory Structural Adapter :notebook: Bridge :notebook: Composite :notebook: DataMapper :notebook: Decorator :notebook: DependencyInjection :notebook: Facade :notebook: FluentInterface :notebook: Flyweight :notebook: Proxy :notebook: Registry :notebook: Behavioral ChainOfResponsibilities :notebook: Command :notebook: Iterator :notebook: Mediator :notebook: Memento :notebook: NullObject :notebook: Observer :notebook: Specification :notebook: State :notebook: Strategy :notebook: TemplateMethod :notebook: Visitor :notebook: More ServiceLocator :notebook: (is considered an anti-pattern! :no_entry:) Repository EAV :notebook: Contribute If you encounter any bugs or missing translations, please feel free to fork and send a pull request with your changes. To establish a consistent code quality, please check your code using PHP_CodeSniffer against PSR2 standard using ./vendor/bin/phpcs -p --standard=PSR2 --ignore=vendor ..