Metrics Capturing JVM- and application-level metrics. So you know whats going on. For more information, please see the documentation. Versions Version 4.x.x (Javadoc) Version 4.x.x (the last release is 4.0.2) is a Java 8/9 compatible and the most fresh release of Metrics. The version targets Java 8 and removes a lot of internal cruft from 3.2.x (for instance, theres no dependency on the Unsafe API and custom LongAdder and ThreadLocalRandom implementations). Its mostly compatible with the 3.2 API and the update should be painless in Java 8 environments. If you have a 3rd party application which is dependent on an old version of Metrics, you can force a new version by adding metrics-bom to your Maven configuration. Check out the release notes for 4.0.0. Source code for 4.1.x is resided in the 4.1-development branch. Source code for 4.0.x is resided in the 4.0-maintenance branch. Version 3.2.x (Javadoc) Version 3.2.x (the last release is 3.2.6) is a Java 6 compatible and the most stable release of Metrics. 3.2.* was actively developed in 2017 and has many new features compared to 3.1.x (check out the release notes). Curently 3.2.x version is in maintenance mode. No future development is planned, but bugfixes are ported and you can expect maintenance releases. Source code for 3.2.x is resided in the 3.2-maintenance branch. Version 3.1.x (Javadoc) Version 3.1.x (the last release is 3.1.5) is a Java 6 compatible release of Metrics. Its the most common distribution of Metrics, albeit not actively developed and maintained. Version 3.1.2 was released in April, 2015 and since then theres been only a handful amount of bugfixes ported to this branch. If youre using Metrics 3.1. , please strongly consider upgrading to 3.2. or 4.0. , because this version is practically EOL. No future releases of 3.1. are expected. Source code for 3.1.x is resided in the 3.1-maintenance branch. Future development New not-backward compatible features (for example, support for tags) will be implemented in a 5.x.x release. The release will have new Maven coordinates, a new package name and an backwards-incompatible API. Source code for 5.x.x is resided in the 5.0-development branch. License Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Coda Hale, Yammer.com, 2014-2017 Dropwizard Team Published under Apache Software License 2.0, see LICENSE