Dropwizard Dropwizard is a sneaky way of making fast Java web applications. Its a little bit of opinionated glue code which bangs together a set of libraries which have historically not sucked: Jetty for HTTP servin. Jersey for REST modelin. Jackson for JSON parsin and generatin. Logback for loggin. Hibernate Validator for validatin. Metrics for figurin out what your application is doin in production. JDBI and Hibernate for databasin. Liquibase for migratin. Read more at dropwizard.io. Want to contribute to Dropwizard? Before working on the code, if you plan to contribute changes, please read the following CONTRIBUTING document. Need help or found an issue? When reporting an issue through the issue tracker on GitHub or sending an email to the Dropwizard User Google Group mailing list, please use the following guidelines: Check existing issues to see if it has been addressed already The version of Dropwizard you are using A short description of the issue you are experiencing and the expected outcome Description of how someone else can reproduce the problem Paste error output or logs in your issue or in a Gist. If pasting them in the GitHub issue, wrap it in three backticks: ``` so that it renders nicely Write a unit test to show the issue! Sponsors Dropwizard is generously supported by some companies with licenses and free accounts for their products. JetBrains JetBrains supports our open source project by sponsoring some All Products Packs within their Free Open Source License program.