English | 简体中文 dva Lightweight front-end framework based on redux, redux-saga and react-router. (Inspired by elm and choo) Features Easy to learn, easy to use: only 6 apis, very friendly to redux users, and API reduce to 0 when use with umi Elm concepts: organize models with reducers, effects and subscriptions Support HMR: support HMR for components, routes and models with babel-plugin-dva-hmr Plugin system: e.g. we have dva-loading plugin to handle loading state automatically Demos Count: Simple count example User Dashboard: User management dashboard AntDesign Pro：(Demo)，out-of-box UI solution for enterprise applications HackerNews: (Demo)，HackerNews Clone antd-admin: (Demo)，A admin dashboard application demo built upon Ant Design and Dva.js github-stars: (Demo)，Github star management application Account System: A small inventory management system react-native-dva-starter: react-native example integrated dva and react-navigation Quick Start Real project with dva dva intro course More documentation, checkout https://dvajs.com/ FAQ Why is it called dva? D.Vas mech is nimble and powerful — its twin Fusion Cannons blast away with autofire at short range, and she can use its Boosters to barrel over enemies and obstacles, or deflect attacks with her projectile-dismantling Defense Matrix. —— From OverWatch Is it production ready? Sure! We have 1000+ projects using dva in Alibaba. Does it support IE8? No. Next Some basic articles. The 8 Concepts, and know how they are connected together dva APIs Checkout dva knowledgemap, including all the basic knowledge with ES6, React, dva Checkout more FAQ If your project is created by dva-cli, checkout how to Configure it Want more? 看看 dva 的前身 React + Redux 最佳实践，知道 dva 是怎么来的 在 gitc 分享 dva 的 PPT ：React 应用框架在蚂蚁金服的实践 如果还在用 dva@1.x，请尽快 升级到 2.x Community 微信群 注：群满 100 人后，可加 sorryccpro 备注 dva 邀请加入。 Telegram https://t.me/joinchat/G0DdHw9tDZC-_NmdKY2jYg License MIT