This page is available as an easy-to-read website at https://ebookfoundation.github.io/. List of Free Learning Resources View the English list Intro This list was originally a clone of stackoverflow - List of Freely Available Programming Books with contributions from Karan Bhangui and George Stocker. The list was moved to GitHub by Victor Felder for collaborative updating and maintenance. It has grown to become one of the most popular repositories on Github, with over 100,000 stars, over 4500 commits, over 950 contributors, and over 25,000 forks. The repo is now administered by the Free Ebook Foundation, a not-for-profit organization devoted to promoting the creation, distribution, archiving and sustainability of free ebooks. Donations to the Free Ebook Foundation are tax-deductible in the US. How To Contribute Please read CONTRIBUTING. If youre new to Github, welcome! How to Share Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on Google Plus Share on LinkedIn Share on Telegram In Other Written Languages Arabic Azerbaijani Bengali Bulgarian Burmese Chinese Czech Dutch English French German Greek Hungarian Indonesian Italian Japanese Korean Persian/Farsi (Iran) Polish Portuguese (Brazil) Portuguese (Portugal) Romanian (Romania) Russian Slovak Spanish Swedish Turkish Ukrainian Free Online Courses English German Italian Polish Russian Spanish Vietnamese Interactive Programming Resources English Russian Problem Sets and Competitive Programming Problem Sets Podcast - Screencast Free Podcasts and Screencasts: Czech English Portuguese (Brazil) Russian Swedish Programming Playgrounds Free Programming Playgrounds License Each file included in this repository is licensed under the CC BY License.