:memo: Available Translations: 🇨🇳 🇹🇼 🇧🇷 🇪🇸 🇰🇷 🇯🇵 🇷🇺 🇫🇷 🇹🇭 🇳🇱 🇹🇷 🇮🇩 🇺🇦 🇨🇿 🇮🇹. View these docs in other languages at electron/i18n. The Electron framework lets you write cross-platform desktop applications using JavaScript, HTML and CSS. It is based on Node.js and Chromium and is used by the Atom editor and many other apps. Follow @ElectronJS on Twitter for important announcements. This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant code of conduct. By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior to coc@electronjs.org. Installation To install prebuilt Electron binaries, use npm. The preferred method is to install Electron as a development dependency in your app: sh npm install electron --save-dev [--save-exact] The --save-exact flag is recommended for Electron prior to version 2, as it does not follow semantic versioning. As of version 2.0.0, Electron follows semver, so you dont need --save-exact flag. For info on how to manage Electron versions in your apps, see Electron versioning. For more installation options and troubleshooting tips, see installation. Quick start Clone and run the electron/electron-quick-start repository to see a minimal Electron app in action: sh git clone https://github.com/electron/electron-quick-start cd electron-quick-start npm install npm start Resources for learning Electron electronjs.org/docs - all of Electrons documentation electron/electron-quick-start - a very basic starter Electron app electronjs.org/community#boilerplates - sample starter apps created by the community electron/simple-samples - small applications with ideas for taking them further electron/electron-api-demos - an Electron app that teaches you how to use Electron hokein/electron-sample-apps - small demo apps for the various Electron APIs Programmatic usage Most people use Electron from the command line, but if you require electron inside your Node app (not your Electron app) it will return the file path to the binary. Use this to spawn Electron from Node scripts: ```javascript const electron = require(electron) const proc = require(child_process) // will print something similar to /Users/maf/.../Electron console.log(electron) // spawn Electron const child = proc.spawn(electron) ``` Mirrors China Documentation Translations Find documentation translations in electron/i18n. Community Info on reporting bugs, getting help, finding third-party tools and sample apps, and more can be found in the support document. License MIT When using the Electron or other GitHub logos, be sure to follow the GitHub logo guidelines.