Special thanks to the generous sponsorship by: A Vue.js 2.0 UI Toolkit for Web. Links Homepage and documentation International users Chinese users Spanish users awesome-element FAQ Customize theme Preview and generate theme online Element for React Element for Angular Atom helper Visual Studio Code helper Starter kit element-starter element-in-laravel-starter Design resources Gitter International users Chinese users Install shell npm install element-ui -S Quick Start ``` javascript import Vue from vue import Element from element-ui Vue.use(Element) // or import { Select, Button // ... } from element-ui Vue.component(Select.name, Select) Vue.component(Button.name, Button) ``` For more information, please refer to Quick Start in our documentation. Browser Support Modern browsers and Internet Explorer 10+. Development Skip this part if you just want to use Element. For those who are interested in contributing to Element, please refer to our contributing guide (中文 | English | Español) to see how to run this project. Changelog Detailed changes for each release are documented in the release notes. FAQ We have collected some frequently asked questions. Before reporting an issue, please search if the FAQ has the answer to your problem. Contribution Please make sure to read the contributing guide (中文 | English | Español) before making a pull request. Special Thanks English documentation is brought to you by SwiftGG Translation Team: - raychenfj - kevin - 曾小涛 - 湾仔王二 - BlooDLine - 陈铭嘉 - 千叶知风 - 梁杰 - Changing - mmoaay Spanish documentation is made possible by these community developers: - adavie1 - carmencitaqiu - coderdiaz - fedegar33 - Gonzalo2310 - lesterbx - ProgramerGuy - SantiagoGdaR - sigfriedCub1990 - thechosenjuan Donation If you find Element useful, you can buy us a cup of coffee Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] LICENSE MIT