Turning design mockups into code with deep learning This is the code for the article Turning design mockups into code with deep learning on FloydHubs blog. Within three years deep learning will change front-end development. It will increase prototyping speed and lower the barrier for building software. The field took off last year when Tony Beltramelli introduced the pix2code paper and Airbnb launched sketching interfaces. Currently, the largest barrier to automating front-end development is computing power. However, we can use current deep learning algorithms, along with synthesized training data, to start exploring artificial front-end automation right now. In the provided models, well teach a neural network how to code a basic HTML and CSS website based on a picture of a design mockup. Well build the neural network in three iterations. Starting with a Hello World version, followed by the main neural network layers, and ending by training it to generalize. A quick overview of the process: 1) Give a design image to the trained neural network 2) The neural network converts the image into HTML markup 3) Rendered output Installation FloydHub FloydHub is hands down the best option to run models on cloud GPUs: floydhub.com bash pip install floyd-cli floyd login git clone https://github.com/emilwallner/Screenshot-to-code-in-Keras cd Screenshot-to-code-in-Keras/floydhub floyd init projectname floyd run --gpu --env tensorflow-1.4 --data emilwallner/datasets/imagetocode/2:data --data emilwallner/datasets/html_models/1:weights --mode jupyter Local bash pip install keras pip install tensorflow pip install pillow pip install h5py pip install jupyter git clone https://github.com/emilwallner/Screenshot-to-code-in-Keras cd Screenshot-to-code-in-Keras/local jupyter notebook Go do the desired notebook, files that end with .ipynb. To run the model, go to the menu then click on Cell > Run all The final version, the Bootstrap version, is prepared with a small set to test run the model. If you want to try it with all the data, you need to download the data here: https://www.floydhub.com/emilwallner/datasets/imagetocode, and specify the correct dir_name. Folder structure bash |-floydhub #Folder to run the project on Floyhub | |-Bootstrap #The Bootstrap version | | |-compiler #A compiler to turn the tokens to HTML/CSS (by pix2code) | |-Hello_world #The Hello World version | |-HTML #The HTML version | | |-resources | | | |-Resources_for_index_file #CSS and images to test index.html file | | | |-html #HTML files to train it on | | | |-images #Screenshots for training |-local #Local setup | |-Bootstrap #The Bootstrap version | | |-compiler #A compiler to turn the tokens to HTML/CSS (by pix2code) | | |-resources | | | |-eval_light #10 test images and markup | |-Hello_world #The Hello World version | |-HTML #The HTML version | | |-Resources_for_index_file #CSS,images and scripts to test index.html file | | |-html #HTML files to train it on | | |-images #Screenshots for training |-readme_images #Images for the readme page Hello World HTML Bootstrap Model weights Bootstrap HTML Acknowledgments The code is largely influenced by Tony Beltramellis pix2code paper. Code Paper The structure and some of the functions are from Jason Brownlees excellent tutorial