This project is no longer under active development. Since Sublime Text is an obsolete software (for me) compared to other editors, please consider Material Theme for Visual Studio Code. Read the deprecation note. This repo will keep approving PRs from contributors. This theme brings the Material Design visual language to your Sublime Text 3. If you have problems, first search for a similiar issue and then report a new one. Please read the Known Issues section before reporting a new one. Any issue that does not use the issue template and any issue related to the known issues section will be automatically closed. Deprecation note I was a Sublime Text user for years. For years sublime text 2 has not received updates, it was totally abandoned by is author, until wbond and others start working on it. After 3 years of v3 beta and only bugfixing i can consider it an obsolete commercial software. Now v3 is out and there are not new features, out of the bos ST is like a commercial Nodepad++ . Is not hard to think: a 80$ commercial software that is 80% cracked or used in free mode. No modern languages integrations built-in. You have to hope that some developer build an extension. No linters integrations No automplete across files for css, html, js, typescript etc (without some RAM-eater extensions) Lack of functionalities, like markdown preview, svg preview, tasks, git.. Theme engine obsolete and very hard to manage. Closed community with not support. And many other issues Visual studio code, atom or IntelliJ have a lot of built-in features, and vsc and atom are free, open source with a huge community and monthly USEFUL updates. With vsc or intellij, you need extension to EXTEND the software, not to build it. With ST you install the basic text editor and you have to install a lot of extensions to make it a bit useful, It is fast, yes, but because it does not have anything. VSC: - Free - Open source and followed community - Lot of improvements and features released every month - A lot of integrations with modern languages out of the box - Fast - Git integration - Tasks integration - Debug integration - Many others You think that sublime text is a good editor? ok, you can still pay 80$ for it (or use it as a free editor) and think what you want, it is not offensive for me. I was the only contributor to this project until last days and yes, im the only one that can take actions on this project. Do you want to fix and rewrite this theme for an obsolete text editor? Im open to new real contributors. :) Easy installation You can install this awesome theme through the Package Control. Press ⌘/Ctrl + ⇧ + P to open the command palette. Type Package Control: Install Package and press enter. Then search for Material Theme. Manual installation Download the latest release, extract and rename the directory to "Material Theme". Move the directory inside your sublime Packages directory. (Preferences > Browse packages...) Activate the theme You can active this theme from: - Command palette Tools > Command Palette (⌘/Ctrl + ⇧ + P) by typing Material Theme: Activate theme. - Context menu (Right click on the editor) and choose Material Theme > Activate - Preferences > Packages Settings and choose Material Theme > Activate You can also manually activate this theme by adding these lines to your user settings (Preferences > Settings - User): json "color_scheme": "Packages/Material Theme/schemes/Material-Theme.tmTheme", "theme": "Material-Theme.sublime-theme", NOTE: Restart Sublime Text after activating the theme. Configuration This theme provide a visual configuration tool that allow you to configure the theme by activating the available options from an inline popup. Just right click in your editor and choose Material Theme > Configuration. You can also open the configurator from the command palette by searching Material Theme > Configuration. Advanced configuration If you like the advanced text text-configuration you can use it by the Material Theme > Advanced configuration command both from context menu and command palette. Known issues Please see the issue #67 if you cant see the bottom panel (find/replace, rename, move, cant see the box inputs in SidebarEnhancement, etc..). here the quick fix: Addons File icons From release 4.0.0 this theme use A File Icon package to display file icons. Please install the package and restart Sublime Text. App Bar Material Theme Appbar This official addon enable a beautiful colored tab bar to your Material Theme. The color tint fits automagically the material theme accent color you choosed. White panels Material Theme White Panels If you want to enable the white panels and inputs you can install the addon package through Package Control, search for "Material theme white panels". You have to disable it if you want to use the Lighter theme style. Theme options ```json // Accent "material_theme_accent_acid-lime" : true, // Set acid-lime accent color "material_theme_accent_blue" : true, // Set blue accent color "material_theme_accent_brba" : true, // Set Breaking Bad green accent color "material_theme_accent_bright-teal" : true, // Set bright-teal accent color "material_theme_accent_cyan" : true, // Set cyan accent color "material_theme_accent_graphite" : true, // Set graphite accent color "material_theme_accent_indigo" : true, // Set indigo accent color "material_theme_accent_lime" : true, // Set lime green accent color "material_theme_accent_orange" : true, // Set orange accent color "material_theme_accent_pink" : true, // Set pink accent color "material_theme_accent_purple" : true, // Set purple accent color "material_theme_accent_red" : true, // Set pale red accent color "material_theme_accent_sky" : true, // Set bright-cyan accent color "material_theme_accent_tomato" : true, // Set tomato red accent color "material_theme_accent_yellow" : true, // Set yellow accent color // Panels "material_theme_accent_scrollbars" : true, // Enable accent color for scrollbars "material_theme_accent_titlebar" : true, // Enable accent color for titlebar "material_theme_bright_scrollbars" : true, // Bright scrollbars puck color "material_theme_compact_panel" : true, // Set minimal padding for the search panel "material_theme_contrast_mode" : true, // Enable sidebar and panels contrast mode "material_theme_panel_separator" : true, // Show bottom panel separator "material_theme_small_statusbar" : true, // Set small status bar "material_theme_titlebar" : true, // Enable title bar (OS X 10.10+) // Sidebar "material_theme_arrow_folders" : true, // Replace folder icons with arrows "material_theme_big_fileicons" : true, // Show bigger file type icons "material_theme_bullet_tree_indicator" : true, // Set a bullet as active tree indicator "material_theme_compact_sidebar" : true, // Set compact sidebar "material_theme_disable_fileicons" : true, // Hide sidebar file type icons "material_theme_disable_folder_animation" : true, // Disable folder animation "material_theme_disable_tree_indicator" : true, // Disable sidebar file indicator // Tabs "material_theme_bold_tab" : true, // Make the tab labels bolder "material_theme_small_tab" : true, // Set small tabs "material_theme_tabs_autowidth" : true, // Enable autowidth for tabs "material_theme_tabs_separator" : true, // Show tabs separator, this disables tab hover animation // If you use Material Theme - Appbar addon, you can use this setting: "material_theme_tree_headings" : true, // Show sidebar headings ``` Recommended settings for a better experience: json "always_show_minimap_viewport" : true, "bold_folder_labels" : true, "font_options" : ["gray_antialias", "subpixel_antialias"], // On retina Mac & Windows "indent_guide_options" : ["draw_normal", "draw_active"], // Highlight active indent "line_padding_bottom" : 3, "line_padding_top" : 3, "overlay_scroll_bars" : "enabled", The font used for the code is "Operator Mono" You can also use the official Material Design monospace font "Roboto Mono" or "Fira Code". Contributing This UI theme uses a custom compiler build on Gulp and JS. If you want to edit the UI you must first install the compiler: Install the PackageDev package to Sublime Text. Then create a new symlink for the subl command following this guide Install all the required packages: $ npm install then run compiler and watcher by run: $ gulp You can now edit the source files under ./sources folder that will be compiled inside the root folder (dont edit compiled files). Other Resources App icon: Download the official Material Theme icon. Sublime Material Icon Pack: A set of Sublime Text icons heavily inspired by this theme and designed by @halacoglu Download it and enjoy a full Material Theme experience. Official Portings Material Theme was also ported to: Atom Editor: atom-material-ui (by @silvestreh) and material-ui (by @leo) IntelliJ IDEA (thanks to @ChrisRM and @mallowigi). Vim (thanks to @kristijanhusak). Terminal OSX (thanks to @mvaneijgen). iTerm2 (by @Revod) and iTerm2 Palenight (by @jonathanspeek). Hyper. ConEmu (thanks to @rajadain). Slack App ( #263238,#2e3a40,#80CBC4,#FFFFFF,#13191C,#ffffff,#50fa7b,#FF5555 ) Nylas N1 (thanks to @jackiehluo) Base16 (by @ntpeters) Color Schemes palettes Color | Default / Lighter | Darker | --- | --- | --- | Red | #FF5370 | #E53935 | Pink | #F07178 | #FF5370 | Orange | #F78C6C | #F76D47 | Yellow | #FFCB6B | #FFB62C | Green | #C3E88D | #91B859 | Pale Blue | #B2CCD6 | #8796B0 | Cyan | #89DDFF | #39ADB5 | Blue | #82AAFF | #6182B8 | Purple | #C792EA | #7C4DFF | Violet | #BB80B3 | #945EB8 | Brown | #AB7967 | #AB7967 | Thanks Thanks for all the contributors. Check the video review by LevelUpTuts Video review Support on Beerpay Hey dude! Help me out for a couple of :beers:!