Erlang/OTP Erlang is a programming language and runtime system for building massively scalable soft real-time systems with requirements on high availability. OTP is a set of Erlang libraries, which consists of the Erlang runtime system, a number of ready-to-use components mainly written in Erlang, and a set of design principles for Erlang programs. Learn more about Erlang and OTP. Learn how to program in Erlang. Examples There are several examples on the website to help you get started. The below example defines a function world/0 that prints "Hello, world" in the Erlang shell: ```erlang -module(hello). -export([world/0]). world() -> io:format("Hello, world\n"). Save the file as `hello.erl` and run `erl` to enter the Erlang shell to compile the module. Erlang/OTP 19 [erts-8.2] [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [async-threads:10] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false] [dtrace] Eshell V8.2 (abort with ^G) 1> c(hello). {ok,hello} 2> hello:world(). Hello, world ok ``` Learn more about the Erlang syntax of modules, functions and expressions on Erlang.org. Installation Binary Distributions Erlang/OTP is available as pre-built binary packages by most OS package managers. apt-get install erlang Compiling from source To compile Erlang from source, run the following commands. The complete building and installation instructions can be found here. git clone https://github.com/erlang/otp.git cd otp ./otp_build autoconf ./configure make make install Alternatively, you can use Kerl, a script that lets you easily build Erlang with a few commands. Bug Reports Please visit bugs.erlang.org for reporting bugs. The instructions for submitting bugs reports can be found here. Security Disclosure We take security bugs in Erlang/OTP seriously. Please disclose the issues regarding security by sending an email to erlang-security [at] erlang [dot] org and not by creating a public issue. Contributing We are grateful to the community for contributing bug fixes and improvements. Read below to learn how you can take part in improving Erlang/OTP. We appreciate your help! Contribution Guide Read our contribution guide to learn about our development process, how to propose fixes and improvements, and how to test your changes to Erlang/OTP before submitting a pull request. Help Wanted We have a list of Help Wanted bugs that we would appreciate external help from the community. This is a great place to get involved. License Erlang/OTP is released under the Apache License 2.0. %CopyrightBegin% Copyright Ericsson AB 2010-2017. All Rights Reserved. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. %CopyrightEnd% Awesome-Erlang You can find more projects, tools and articles related to Erlang/OTP on the awesome-erlang list. Add your project there.