This project is looking for a new project lead. If you wish to help steer Etherpad forward please email contact@etherpad.org A really-real time collaborative word processor for the web About Etherpad is a really-real time collaborative editor scalable to thousands of simultanious real time users. Unlike all other collaborative tools Etherpad provides full fidelity data export and portability making it fully GDPR compliant. Try it out Installation Uber-Quick Ubuntu curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_9.x | sudo -E bash - sudo apt-get install -y nodejs git clone https://github.com/ether/etherpad-lite.git && cd etherpad-lite && bin/run.sh GNU/Linux and other UNIX-like systems Youll need gzip, git, curl, libssl develop libraries, python and gcc. - For Debian/Ubuntu: apt install gzip git curl python libssl-dev pkg-config build-essential - For Fedora/CentOS: yum install gzip git curl python openssl-devel && yum groupinstall "Development Tools" - For FreeBSD: portinstall node, npm, curl, git (optional) Additionally, youll need node.js installed, Ideally the latest stable version, we recommend installing/compiling nodejs from source (avoiding apt). As any user (we recommend creating a separate user called etherpad): Move to a folder where you want to install Etherpad. Clone the git repository git clone git://github.com/ether/etherpad-lite.git Change into the new directory containing the cloned source code cd etherpad-lite Now, run bin/run.sh and open http://127.0.0.1:9001 in your browser. Update to the latest version with git pull origin. The next start with bin/run.sh will update the dependencies. Next steps. Windows Prebuilt windows package This package works out of the box on any windows machine, but its not very useful for developing purposes... Download the latest windows package Extract the folder Now, run start.bat and open http://localhost:9001 in your browser. You like it? Next steps. Fancy install Youll need node.js and (optionally, though recommended) git. Grab the source, either download https://github.com/ether/etherpad-lite/zipball/master or git clone https://github.com/ether/etherpad-lite.git (for this you need git, obviously) start bin\installOnWindows.bat Now, run start.bat and open http://localhost:9001 in your browser. Update to the latest version with git pull origin, then run bin\installOnWindows.bat, again. If cloning to a subdirectory within another project, you may need to do the following: Start the server manually (e.g. node/node_modules/ep_etherpad-lite/node/server.js]) Edit the db filename in settings.json to the relative directory with the file (e.g. application/lib/etherpad-lite/var/dirty.db) Add auto-generated files to the main project .gitignore Next Steps Tweak the settings You can initially modify the settings in settings.json. (If you need to handle multiple settings files, you can pass the path to a settings file to bin/run.sh using the -s|--settings option. This allows you to run multiple Etherpad instances from the same installation.) Once you have access to your /admin section settings can be modified through the web browser. You should use a dedicated database such as "mysql", if you are planning on using etherpad-in a production environment, since the "dirtyDB" database driver is only for testing and/or development purposes. Plugins and themes Etherpad is very customizable through plugins. Instructions for installing themes and plugins can be found in the plugin wiki article. Helpful resources The wiki is your one-stop resource for Tutorials and How-tos. Documentation can be found in doc/. Development Things you should know Understand git and watch this video on getting started with Etherpad Development. If youre new to node.js, start with Ryan Dahls Introduction to Node.js. You can debug Etherpad using bin/debugRun.sh. If you want to find out how Etherpads Easysync works (the library that makes it really realtime), start with this PDF (complex, but worth reading). Contributing Read our Developer Guidelines Get in touch mailinglist #etherpad-lite-dev freenode IRC! Languages Etherpad is written in JavaScript on both the server and client so its easy for developers to maintain and add new features. HTTP API Etherpad is designed to be easily embeddable and provides a HTTP API that allows your web application to manage pads, users and groups. It is recommended to use the available client implementations in order to interact with this API. jQuery plugin There is a jQuery plugin that helps you to embed Pads into your website. Plugin Framework Etherpad offers a plugin framework, allowing you to easily add your own features. By default your Etherpad is extremely light-weight and its up to you to customize your experience. Once you have Etherpad installed you should visit the plugin page and take control. Translations / Localizations (i18n / l10n) Etherpad comes with translations into all languages thanks to the team at TranslateWiki. FAQ Visit the FAQ. Donate! Flattr Paypal - Press the donate button on etherpad.org Bitcoin All donations go to the Etherpad foundation which is part of Software Freedom Conservency License Apache License v2