Fast, unopinionated, minimalist web framework for node. ```js var express = require(express) var app = express() app.get(/, function (req, res) { res.send(Hello World) }) app.listen(3000) ``` Installation This is a Node.js module available through the npm registry. Before installing, download and install Node.js. Node.js 0.10 or higher is required. Installation is done using the npm install command: bash $ npm install express Follow our installing guide for more information. Features Robust routing Focus on high performance Super-high test coverage HTTP helpers (redirection, caching, etc) View system supporting 14+ template engines Content negotiation Executable for generating applications quickly Docs & Community Website and Documentation - [website repo] #express on freenode IRC GitHub Organization for Official Middleware & Modules Visit the Wiki Google Group for discussion Gitter for support and discussion PROTIP Be sure to read Migrating from 3.x to 4.x as well as New features in 4.x. Security Issues If you discover a security vulnerability in Express, please see Security Policies and Procedures. Quick Start The quickest way to get started with express is to utilize the executable express(1) to generate an application as shown below: Install the executable. The executables major version will match Expresss: bash $ npm install -g express-generator@4 Create the app: bash $ express /tmp/foo && cd /tmp/foo Install dependencies: bash $ npm install Start the server: bash $ npm start Philosophy The Express philosophy is to provide small, robust tooling for HTTP servers, making it a great solution for single page applications, web sites, hybrids, or public HTTP APIs. Express does not force you to use any specific ORM or template engine. With support for over 14 template engines via Consolidate.js, you can quickly craft your perfect framework. Examples To view the examples, clone the Express repo and install the dependencies: bash $ git clone git://github.com/expressjs/express.git --depth 1 $ cd express $ npm install Then run whichever example you want: bash $ node examples/content-negotiation Tests To run the test suite, first install the dependencies, then run npm test: bash $ npm install $ npm test People The original author of Express is TJ Holowaychuk The current lead maintainer is Douglas Christopher Wilson List of all contributors License MIT