Shimmer Shimmer is an easy way to add a shimmering effect to any view in your app. Its useful as an unobtrusive loading indicator. Shimmer was originally developed to show loading status in Paper. Usage To use Shimmer, create a FBShimmeringView or FBShimmeringLayer and add your content. To start shimmering, set the shimmering property to YES. An example of making a label shimmer: ```objective-c FBShimmeringView *shimmeringView = [[FBShimmeringView alloc] initWithFrame:self.view.bounds]; [self.view addSubview:shimmeringView]; UILabel *loadingLabel = [[UILabel alloc] initWithFrame:shimmeringView.bounds]; loadingLabel.textAlignment = NSTextAlignmentCenter; loadingLabel.text = NSLocalizedString(@"Shimmer", nil); shimmeringView.contentView = loadingLabel; // Start shimmering. shimmeringView.shimmering = YES; ``` Theres also an example project. In the example, you can swipe horizontally and vertically to try various shimmering parameters, or tap to start or stop shimmering. (To build the example locally, youll need to open FBShimmering.xcworkpace rather than the .xcodeproj.) Installation There are two options: Shimmer is available as Shimmer in Cocoapods. Manually add the files into your Xcode project. Slightly simpler, but updates are also manual. Shimmer requires iOS 6 or later. How it works Shimmer uses the -[CALayer mask] property to enable shimmering, similar to whats described in John Harpers 2009 WWDC talk (unfortunately no longer online). Shimmer uses CoreAnimations timing features to smoothly transition "on-beat" when starting and stopping the shimmer. Other Platforms We have a version of Shimmer for Android, too! Its also available on GitHub. Contributing See the CONTRIBUTING file for how to help out. License Shimmer is BSD-licensed. We also provide an additional patent grant.