Flow Flow is a static typechecker for JavaScript. To find out more about Flow, check out flow.org. For a background on the project, please read this overview. Requirements Flow works with: Mac OS X Linux (64-bit) Windows (64-bit) There are binary distributions for each of these platforms and you can also build it from source on any of them as well. Installing Flow Flow is simple to install: all you need is the flow binary on your PATH and youre good to go. Installing Flow Per Project The recommended way to install Flow is via the flow-bin npm package. Adding flow-bin to your projects package.json: provides a smoother upgrade experience, since the correct version of Flow is automatically used based on the revision you check out installs Flow as part of your existing npm install workflow lets you use different versions of Flow on different projects npm install --save-dev flow-bin node_modules/.bin/flow Installing Flow Globally Although not recommended, you can also install Flow globally (for example, perhaps you dont use npm or package.json). The best way to install globally is via flow-bin: npm install -g flow-bin flow # make sure `npm bin -g` is on your path On Mac OS X, you can install Flow via the Homebrew package manager: brew update brew install flow You can also build and install Flow via the OCaml OPAM package manager. Since Flow has some non-OCaml dependencies, you need to use the depext package like so: opam install depext opam depext --install flowtype If you dont have a new enough version of OCaml to compile Flow, you can also use OPAM to bootstrap a modern version. Install OPAM via the binary packages for your operating system and run: opam init --comp=4.05.0 opam install flowtype eval `opam config env` flow --help Getting started Getting started with flow is super easy. Initialize Flow by running the following command in the root of your project flow init Add the following to the top of all the files you want to typecheck javascript /* @flow */ Run and see the magic happen flow check More thorough documentation and many examples can be found at https://flow.org. Building Flow Flow is written in OCaml (OCaml 4.05.0 or higher is required). You can install OCaml on Mac OS X and Linux by following the instructions at ocaml.org. For example, on Ubuntu 16.04 and similar systems: sudo apt-get install opam opam init --comp 4.05.0 On OS X, using the brew package manager: brew install opam opam init --comp 4.05.0 Then, restart your shell and install these additional libraries: opam update opam pin add flowtype . -n opam install --deps-only flowtype Once you have these dependencies, building Flow just requires running make This produces a bin folder containing the flow binary. In order to make the flow.js file, you first need to install js_of_ocaml: opam install -y js_of_ocaml After that, making flow.js is easy: make js The new flow.js file will also live in the bin folder. Note: at this time, the OCaml dependency prevents us from adding Flow to npm. Try flow-bin if you need a npm binary wrapper. Flow can also compile its parser to JavaScript. Read how here. Building Flow on Windows This is a little more complicated. Here is a process that works, though it probably can be simplified. The general idea is that we build in Cygwin, targeting mingw. This gives us a binary that works even outside of Cygwin. Install Cygwin Install Cygwin 64bit from https://cygwin.com/install.html In powershell, run iex ((new-object net.webclient).DownloadString("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/ocaml-ci-scripts/master/appveyor-install.ps1")) which will likely run a cygwin setup installer with a bunch of cygwin packages and stuff. This helps make sure that every package that opam needs is available. Install Opam Open the cygwin64 terminal Download opam with curl -fsSL -o opam64.tar.xz https://github.com/fdopen/opam-repository-mingw/releases/download/0.0.0.1/opam64.tar.xz tar -xf opam64.tar.xz cd opam64 Install opam ./install.sh Initialize opam to point to a mingw fork: opam init -a default "https://github.com/fdopen/opam-repository-mingw.git" --comp "4.05.0+mingw64c" --switch "4.05.0+mingw64c" Make sure opam stuff is in your path: eval `opam config env` Install Flow Clone flow: git clone https://github.com/facebook/flow.git cd flow Tell opam to use this directory as the flowtype project: opam pin add flowtype . -n Install system dependencies opam depext -u flowtype Install Flows dependencies opam install flowtype --deps-only Finally, build Flow: make all Using Flows parser from JavaScript While Flow is written in OCaml, its parser is available as a compiled-to-JavaScript module published to npm, named flow-parser. Most end users of Flow will not need to use this parser directly (and should install flow-bin from npm above), but JavaScript packages which make use of parsing Flow-typed JavaScript can use this to generate Flows syntax tree with annotated types attached. Running the tests To run the tests, first compile flow using make. Then run bash ./runtests.sh bin/flow There is a make test target that compiles and runs tests. To run a subset of the tests you can pass a second argument to the runtests.sh file. For example: bash runtests.sh bin/flow class | grep -v SKIP Join the Flow community Website: https://flow.org/ irc: #flowtype on Freenode Twitter: follow @flowtype and #flowtype to keep up with the latest Flow news. Stack Overflow: Ask a question with the flowtype tag License Flow is MIT-licensed (LICENSE). The website and documentation are licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 license (website/LICENSE-DOCUMENTATION).