SocketRocket []license-link A conforming WebSocket (RFC 6455) client library for iOS, macOS and tvOS. Test results for SocketRocket here. You can compare to what modern browsers look like here. SocketRocket currently conforms to all core ~300 of Autobahns fuzzing tests (aside from two UTF-8 ones where it is merely non-strict tests 6.4.2 and 6.4.4). Features/Design TLS (wss) support, including self-signed certificates. Seems to perform quite well. Supports HTTP Proxies. Supports IPv4/IPv6. Supports SSL certificate pinning. Sends ping and can process pong events. Asynchronous and non-blocking. Most of the work is done on a background thread. Supports iOS, macOS, tvOS. Installing There are a few options. Choose one, or just figure it out: CocoaPods Add the following line to your Podfile: ruby pod SocketRocket Run pod install, and you are all set. Carthage Add the following line to your Cartfile: github "facebook/SocketRocket" Run carthage update, and you should now have the latest version of SocketRocket in your Carthage folder. Using SocketRocket as a sub-project You can also include SocketRocket as a subproject inside of your application if youd prefer, although we do not recommend this, as it will increase your indexing time significantly. To do so, just drag and drop the SocketRocket.xcodeproj file into your workspace. API SRWebSocket The Web Socket. Note: SRWebSocket will retain itself between -(void)open and when it closes, errors, or fails. This is similar to how NSURLConnection behaves (unlike NSURLConnection, SRWebSocket wont retain the delegate). Interface ```objective-c @interface SRWebSocket : NSObject // Make it with this - (instancetype)initWithURLRequest:(NSURLRequest *)request; // Set this before opening @property (nonatomic, weak) id delegate; // Open with this - (void)open; // Close it with this - (void)close; // Send a Data - (void)sendData:(nullable NSData )data error:(NSError *)error; // Send a UTF8 String - (void)sendString:(NSString )string error:(NSError *)error; @end ``` SRWebSocketDelegate You implement this ```objective-c @protocol SRWebSocketDelegate @optional (void)webSocketDidOpen:(SRWebSocket *)webSocket; (void)webSocket:(SRWebSocket )webSocket didReceiveMessageWithString:(NSString )string; (void)webSocket:(SRWebSocket )webSocket didReceiveMessageWithData:(NSData )data; (void)webSocket:(SRWebSocket )webSocket didFailWithError:(NSError )error; (void)webSocket:(SRWebSocket )webSocket didCloseWithCode:(NSInteger)code reason:(nullable NSString )reason wasClean:(BOOL)wasClean; @end ``` Testing Included are setup scripts for the python testing environment. It comes packaged with vitualenv so all the dependencies are installed in userland. To run the short test from the command line, run: bash make test To run all the tests, run: bash make test_all The short tests dont include the performance tests (the test harness is actually the bottleneck, not SocketRocket). The first time this is run, it may take a while to install the dependencies. It will be smooth sailing after that. You can also run tests inside Xcode, which runs the same thing, but makes it easier to debug. Choose the SocketRocket target Run the test action (⌘+U) TestChat Demo Application SocketRocket includes a demo app, TestChat. It will "chat" with a listening websocket on port 9900. TestChat Server The sever takes a message and broadcasts it to all other connected clients. It requires some dependencies though to run. We also want to reuse the virtualenv we made when we ran the tests. If you havent run the tests yet, go into the SocketRocket root directory and type: bash make test This will set up your virtualenv. Now, in your terminal: bash source .env/bin/activate pip install git+https://github.com/tornadoweb/tornado.git In the same terminal session, start the chatroom server: bash python TestChatServer/py/chatroom.py Theres also a Go implementation (with the latest weekly) where you can: bash cd TestChatServer/go go run chatroom.go Chatting Now, start TestChat.app (just run the target in the Xcode project). If you had it started already you can hit the refresh button to reconnect. It should say "Connected!" on top. To talk with the app, open up your browser to http://localhost:9000 and start chatting. WebSocket Server Implementation Recommendations SocketRocket has been used with the following libraries: Tornado Gos WebSocket package or Gorillas version. Autobahn (using its fuzzing client). The Tornado one is dirt simple and works like a charm. (IPython notebook uses it too). Its much easier to configure handlers and routes than in Autobahn/twisted. Contributing Were glad youre interested in SocketRocket, and wed love to see where you take it. Please read our contributing guidelines prior to submitting a Pull Request.