Reason Simple, fast & type safe code that leverages the JavaScript & OCaml ecosystems. Getting Started Community Contributing Documentations Go to https://github.com/reasonml/reasonml.github.io to contribute to the Reason documentation. Codebase See the src folders README. Installation for Programmatic Usage If youre not using Reason programmatically, disregard this section and see the Getting Started guide above. This is for using Reasons refmt as a third-party library. JavaScript API We expose a refmt.js for you to use on the web. Again, for local development, please use the native refmt that comes with the installation here. Its an order of magnitude faster than the JS version. Dont use the JS version unless you know what youre doing. Lets keep our ecosystem fast please. Aaaanyways, to install refmt.js: npm install reason. Heres the API, with pseudo type annotations: parseRE(code: string): astAndComments: parse Reason code parseREI(code: string): astAndComments: parse Reason interface code printRE(data: astAndComments): string: print Reason code printREI(data: astAndComments): string: print Reason interface code parseML(code), parseMLI(code), printML(data), printMLI(data): same as above, but for the OCaml syntax The type string is self-descriptive. The type astAndComments returned by the parse* functions is an opaque data structure; you will only use it as input to the print* functions. For example: ```js const refmt = require(reason) // convert the ocaml syntax to reason syntax const ast = refmt.parseML(let f a = 1); const result = refmt.printRE(ast); console.log(result) // prints let f = (a) => 1 ``` The parse* functions potentially throw an error of this shape: js { message: string, // location can be undefined location: { // all 1-indexed startLine: number, // inclusive startLineStartChar: number, // inclusive endLine: number, // inclusive endLineEndChar: number, // **exclusive** } } NOTE: refmt.js requires the node module fs, which of course isnt available on the web. If using webpack, to avoid the missing module error, put node: { fs: empty } into webpack.config.js. See https://webpack.js.org/configuration/node/#other-node-core-libraries for more information. refmt.js is minified for you through Closure Compiler, with an accompanying refmt.map. The size is 2.3MB but dont get fooled; it gzips down to just 345KB. This way, you can carry it around in your own blog and use it to create interactive refmt playground, without worrying about imposing bandwidth overhead to your readers. Again, keep our ecosystem fast and lean. Native API Were spoiled with more APIs on the native side. To use Reason from OPAM as a native library, you have these functions. So: Reason_toolchain.RE.implementation_with_comments Reason_toolchain.RE.interface_with_comments Reason_toolchain.RE.print_interface_with_comments Reason_toolchain.ML.implementation_with_comments etc. The ML parsing functions might throw Syntaxerr.Error error. The RE parsing functions might throw this (docs on Location.t here) in addition to Syntaxerr.Error error. Example usage: ```ocaml let ast_and_comments = Lexing.from_string "let f a => 1" |> Reason_toolchain.RE.implementation_with_comments ( Convert Reason back to OCaml syntax. Thatll show these Reason users! ) let ocaml_syntax = Reason_toolchain.ML.print_implementation_with_comments Format.str_formatter ast_and_comments; Format.flush_str_formatter () ``` License See Reason license in LICENSE.txt. Works that are forked from other projects are under their original licenses. Credit The general structure of refmt repo was copied from whitequarks m17n project, including parts of the README that instruct how to use this with the OPAM toolchain. Thank you OCaml!