Docusaurus · Docusaurus is a project for easily building, deploying, and maintaining open source project websites. Simple to Start Docusaurus is built to be easy to get up and running in as little time possible. Weve built Docusaurus to handle the website build process so you can focus on your project. Localizable Docusaurus ships with localization support via CrowdIn. Empower and grow your international community by translating your documentation. Customizable While Docusaurus ships with the key pages and sections you need to get started, including a home page, a docs section, a blog, and additional support pages, it is also customizable as well to ensure you have a site that is uniquely yours. Installation Docusaurus is available as the docusaurus package on npm. We have also released the docusaurus-init package to make getting started with Docusaurus even easier. Contributing Weve released Docusaurus because it helps us better scale and support the many OSS projects at Facebook. We hope that other organizations can benefit from the project. We are thankful for any contributions from the community. Code of Conduct Facebook has adopted a Code of Conduct that we expect project participants to adhere to. Please read the full text so that you can understand what actions will and will not be tolerated. Contributing Guide Read our contributing guide to learn about our development process, how to propose bugfixes and improvements, and how to build and test your changes to Docusaurus. Beginner Friendly Bugs To help you get your feet wet and get you familiar with our contribution process, we have a list of beginner friendly bugs that contain bugs which are fairly easy to fix. This is a great place to get started. Contact We have a few channels for contact: Discord with two text channels: #docusaurus-users for those using Docusaurus. #docusaurus-dev for those wanting to contribute to the Docusaurus core. @docusaurus on Twitter GitHub Issues License Docusaurus is MIT licensed. The Docusaurus documentation (e.g., .md files in the /docs folder) is Creative Commons licensed.