Chisel Chisel is a collection of LLDB commands to assist in the debugging of iOS apps. [Installation • Commands • Custom Commands • Development Workflow Contributing • License] For a comprehensive overview of LLDB, and how Chisel complements it, read Ari Grants Dancing in the Debugger — A Waltz with LLDB in issue 19 of objc.io. Installation shell brew update brew install chisel if .lldbinit file doesnt exist you can create it & open it by tapping on the terminal shell touch .lldbinit open .lldbinit Then add the following line to your ~/.lldbinit file. ```Python ~/.lldbinit ... command script import /usr/local/opt/chisel/libexec/fblldb.py ``` Alternatively, download chisel and add the following line to your ~/.lldbinit file. ```Python ~/.lldbinit ... command script import /path/to/fblldb.py ``` The commands will be available the next time Xcode starts. Commands There are many commands; heres a few: (Compatibility with iOS/Mac indicated at right) |Command |Description |iOS |OS X | |-----------------|----------------|-------|-------| |pviews |Print the recursive view description for the key window.|Yes|Yes| |pvc |Print the recursive view controller description for the key window.|Yes|No| |visualize |Open a UIImage, CGImageRef, UIView, CALayer, NSData (of an image), UIColor, CIColor, or CGColorRef in Preview.app on your Mac.|Yes|No| |fv |Find a view in the hierarchy whose class name matches the provided regex.|Yes|No| |fvc |Find a view controller in the hierarchy whose class name matches the provided regex.|Yes|No| |show/hide |Show or hide the given view or layer. You dont even have to continue the process to see the changes!|Yes|Yes| |mask/unmask |Overlay a view or layer with a transparent rectangle to visualize where it is.|Yes|No| |border/unborder |Add a border to a view or layer to visualize where it is.|Yes|Yes| |caflush |Flush the render server (equivalent to a "repaint" if no animations are in-flight).|Yes|Yes| |bmessage |Set a symbolic breakpoint on the method of a class or the method of an instance without worrying which class in the hierarchy actually implements the method.|Yes|Yes| |wivar |Set a watchpoint on an instance variable of an object.|Yes|Yes| |presponder |Print the responder chain starting from the given object.|Yes|Yes| |... |... and many more!| To see the list of all of the commands execute the help command in LLDB or go to the Wiki. ```Python (lldb) help The following is a list of built-in, permanent debugger commands: ... The following is a list of your current user-defined commands: ... ``` The bottom of the list will contain all of the commands sourced from Chisel. You can also inspect a specific command by passing its name as an argument to the help command (as with all other LLDB commands). ``` (lldb) help border Draws a border around . Color and width can be optionally provided. Arguments: ; Type: UIView*; The view to border. Options: --color/-c ; Type: string; A color name such as red, green, magenta, etc. --width/-w ; Type: CGFloat; Desired width of border. Syntax: border [--color=color] [--width=width] ``` All of the commands provided by Chisel come with verbose help. Be sure to read it when in doubt! Custom Commands You can add local, custom commands. Heres a contrived example. ```python !/usr/bin/python Example file with custom commands, located at /magical/commands/example.py import lldb import fblldbbase as fb def lldbcommands(): return [ PrintKeyWindowLevel() ] class PrintKeyWindowLevel(fb.FBCommand): def name(self): return pkeywinlevel def description(self): return An incredibly contrived command that prints the window level of the key window. def run(self, arguments, options): # Its a good habit to explicitly cast the type of all return # values and arguments. LLDB cant always find them on its own. lldb.debugger.HandleCommand(p (CGFloat)[(id)[(id)[UIApplication sharedApplication] keyWindow] windowLevel]) ``` Then all thats left is to source the commands in lldbinit. Chisel has a python function just for this, loadCommandsInDirectory in the fblldb.py module. ```Python ~/.lldbinit ... command script import /path/to/fblldb.py script fblldb.loadCommandsInDirectory(/magical/commands/) ``` Theres also builtin support to make it super easy to specify the arguments and options that a command takes. See the border and pinvocation commands for example use. Development Workflow Developing commands, whether for local use or contributing to Chisel directly, both follow the same workflow. Create a command as described in the Custom Commands section and then Start LLDB Reach a breakpoint (or simply pause execution via the pause button in Xcodes debug bar or process interrupt if attached directly) Execute command source ~/.lldbinit in LLDB to source the commands Run the command you are working on Modify the command Optionally run script reload(modulename) Repeat steps 3-6 until the command becomes a source of happiness Contributing Please contribute any generic commands that you make. If it helps you then it will likely help many others! :D See CONTRIBUTING.md to learn how to contribute. License Chisel is BSD-licensed. See LICENSE.