HHVM HHVM page | HHVM documentation | Hacklang page | General group | Dev group | Twitter HHVM is an open-source virtual machine designed for executing programs written in Hack. HHVM uses a just-in-time (JIT) compilation approach to achieve superior performance while maintaining the development flexibility that PHP provides. HHVM is intended for Hack projects, and also supports a large subset of PHP 7 that is required by common tools and libraries. We no longer recommend using HHVM for purely PHP projects. HHVM should be used together with a webserver like the built in, easy to deploy Proxygen, or a FastCGI-based webserver on top of nginx or Apache. Installing If youre new, try our getting started guide. You can install a prebuilt package or compile from source. Running You can run standalone programs just by passing them to hhvm: hhvm my_script.php. If you want to host a website: Install your favorite webserver. Proxygen is built in to HHVM, fast and easy to deploy. Install our package Start your webserver Run sudo /etc/init.d/hhvm start * Visit your site at http://.../index.php Our getting started guide provides a slightly more detailed introduction as well as links to more information. Contributing Wed love to have your help in making HHVM better. If youre interested, please read our guide to contributing. License HHVM is licensed under the PHP and Zend licenses except as otherwise noted. The Hack typechecker is licensed under the MIT License except as otherwise noted. Reporting Crashes See Reporting Crashes for helpful tips on how to report crashes in an actionable manner. Reporting and Fixing Security Issues Please do not open GitHub issues or pull requests - this makes the problem immediately visible to everyone, including malicious actors. Security issues in HHVM can be safely reported via HHVMs Whitehat Bug Bounty program: https://www.facebook.com/whitehat Facebooks security team will triage your report and determine whether or not is it eligible for a bounty under our program. FAQ Our user FAQ has answers to many common questions about HHVM, from general questions to questions geared towards those that want to use. There is also a FAQ for contributors to HHVM.