fastlane is a tool for iOS and Android developers to automate tedious tasks like generating screenshots, dealing with provisioning profiles, and releasing your application. ✨ All fastlane docs were moved to docs.fastlane.tools ✨ Need Help? Before submitting a new GitHub issue, please make sure to Check out docs.fastlane.tools Search for existing GitHub issues If the above doesnt help, please submit an issue on GitHub and provide information about your setup, in particular the output of the fastlane env command. Note: If you want to report a regression in fastlane (something that has worked before, but broke with a new release), please mark your issue title as such using [Regression] Your title here. This enables us to quickly detect and fix regressions. fastlane team Stefan Natchev Matthew Ellis Jérôme Lacoste Andrew McBurney Fumiya Nakamura Iulian Onofrei Kohki Miki Jan Piotrowski Olivier Halligon Aaron Brager Josh Holtz Maksym Grebenets Jorge Revuelta H Felix Krause Manu Wallner Jimmy Dee Luka Mirosevic Helmut Januschka Joshua Liebowitz Danielle Tomlinson Special thanks to all contributors for extending and improving fastlane. Contribute to fastlane Check out CONTRIBUTING.md for more information on how to help with fastlane. Code of Conduct Help us keep fastlane open and inclusive. Please read and follow our Code of Conduct. Metrics fastlane tracks a few key metrics to understand how developers are using the tool and to help us know what areas need improvement. No personal/sensitive information is ever collected. Metrics that are collected include: The number of fastlane runs A salted hash of the app identifier or package name, which helps us anonymously identify unique usage of fastlane You can easily opt-out of metrics collection by adding opt_out_usage at the top of your Fastfile or by setting the environment variable FASTLANE_OPT_OUT_USAGE. Check out the metrics code on GitHub License This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license. See the LICENSE file. This project and all fastlane tools are in no way affiliated with Apple Inc. This project is open source under the MIT license, which means you have full access to the source code and can modify it to fit your own needs. All fastlane tools run on your own computer or server, so your credentials or other sensitive information will never leave your own computer. You are responsible for how you use fastlane tools. ✨ All fastlane docs were moved to docs.fastlane.tools ✨