vim-go Features This plugin adds Go language support for Vim, with the following main features: Compile your package with :GoBuild, install it with :GoInstall or test it with :GoTest. Run a single test with :GoTestFunc). Quickly execute your current file(s) with :GoRun. Improved syntax highlighting and folding. Debug programs with integrated delve support with :GoDebugStart. Completion support via gocode. gofmt or goimports on save keeps the cursor position and undo history. Go to symbol/declaration with :GoDef. Look up documentation with :GoDoc or :GoDocBrowser. Easily import packages via :GoImport, remove them via :GoDrop. Precise type-safe renaming of identifiers with :GoRename. See which code is covered by tests with :GoCoverage. Add or remove tags on struct fields with :GoAddTags and :GoRemoveTags. Call gometalinter with :GoMetaLinter to invoke all possible linters (golint, vet, errcheck, deadcode, etc.) and put the result in the quickfix or location list. Lint your code with :GoLint, run your code through :GoVet to catch static errors, or make sure errors are checked with :GoErrCheck. Advanced source analysis tools utilizing guru, such as :GoImplements, :GoCallees, and :GoReferrers. ... and many more! Please see doc/vim-go.txt for more information. Install The latest stable release is the recommended version to use. If you choose to use the master branch instead, please do so with caution; it is a development branch. vim-go follows the standard runtime path structure. Below are some helper lines for popular package managers: Vim 8 packages git clone https://github.com/fatih/vim-go.git ~/.vim/pack/plugins/start/vim-go Pathogen git clone https://github.com/fatih/vim-go.git ~/.vim/bundle/vim-go vim-plug Plug fatih/vim-go, { do: :GoUpdateBinaries } You will also need to install all the necessary binaries. vim-go makes it easy to install all of them by providing a command, :GoInstallBinaries, which will go get all the required binaries. Check out the Install section in the documentation for more detailed instructions (:help go-install). Usage The full documentation can be found at doc/vim-go.txt. You can display it from within Vim with :help vim-go. Depending on your installation method, you may have to generate the plugins help tags manually (e.g. :helptags ALL). We also have an official vim-go tutorial. License The BSD 3-Clause License - see LICENSE for more details