fish - the friendly interactive shell fish is a smart and user-friendly command line shell for macOS, Linux, and the rest of the family. fish includes features like syntax highlighting, autosuggest-as-you-type, and fancy tab completions that just work, with no configuration required. For more on fishs design philosophy, see the design document. Quick Start fish generally works like other shells, like bash or zsh. A few important differences can be found at https://fishshell.com/docs/current/tutorial.html by searching for the magic phrase "unlike other shells". Detailed user documentation is available by running help within fish, and also at https://fishshell.com/docs/current/index.html You can quickly play with fish right in your browser by clicking the button below: Getting fish macOS fish can be installed: using Homebrew: brew install fish using MacPorts: sudo port install fish using the installer from fishshell.com as a standalone app from fishshell.com Packages for Linux Packages for Debian, Fedora, openSUSE, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux/CentOS are available from the openSUSE Build Service. Packages for Ubuntu are available from the fish PPA, and can be installed using the following commands: sudo apt-add-repository ppa:fish-shell/release-2 sudo apt-get update sudo apt-get install fish Instructions for other distributions may be found at fishshell.com. Windows On Windows 10, fish can be installed under the WSL Windows Subsystem for Linux with sudo apt install fish or from source with the instructions below. Fish can also be installed on all versions of Windows using Cygwin (from the Shells category). Building from source If packages are not available for your platform, GPG-signed tarballs are available from fishshell.com and fish-shell on GitHub. See the Building section for instructions. Running fish Once installed, run fish from your current shell to try fish out! Dependencies Running fish requires: curses or ncurses (preinstalled on most *nix systems) some common *nix system utilities (currently mktemp and seq), in addition to the basic posix utilities gettext (library and gettext command), if compiled with translation support The following optional features also have specific requirements: builtin commands that have the --help option or print usage messages require nroff and ul automated completion generation from manual pages requires Python (2.7+ or 3.3+) and possibly the backports.lzma module for Python 2.7 the fish_config web configuration tool requires Python (2.7+ or 3.3 +) and a web browser system clipboard integration (with the default Ctrl-V and Ctrl-X bindings) require either the xsel or pbcopy/pbpaste utilities Switching to fish If you wish to use fish as your default shell, use the following command: chsh -s /usr/local/bin/fish chsh will prompt you for your password and change your default shell. (Substitute /usr/local/bin/fish with whatever path fish was installed to, if it differs.) Use the following command if fish isnt already added to /etc/shells to permit fish to be your login shell: echo /usr/local/bin/fish | sudo tee -a /etc/shells To switch your default shell back, you can run chsh -s /bin/bash (substituting /bin/bash with /bin/tcsh or /bin/zsh as appropriate). Building Dependencies Compiling fish requires: a C++11 compiler (g++ 4.8 or later, or clang 3.3 or later) any of CMake, GNU Make, or (on macOS only) Xcode a curses implementation such as ncurses (headers and libraries) PCRE2 (headers and libraries) - a copy is included with fish gettext (headers and libraries) - optional, for translation support Additionally, if compiling fish with GNU Make from git (that is, not from an officially released tarball), autoconf 2.60+ and automake 1.13+ are required. Doxygen (1.8.7 or later) is also optionally required to build the documentation from a cloned git repository. Building from source (all platforms) Using CMake (preferred) bash mkdir build; cd build cmake .. # add -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release for release build make sudo make install Using autotools bash autoreconf --no-recursive #if building from Git ./configure make sudo make install Building from source (macOS only) Build the base target in Xcode Run the fish executable, for example, in DerivedData/fish/Build/Products/Debug/base/bin/fish To build and install fish with Xcode on macOS, execute the following in a terminal: bash xcodebuild install sudo ditto /tmp/fish.dst / sudo make install-doc Help, it didnt build! If fish reports that it could not find curses, try installing a curses development package and build again. On Debian or Ubuntu you want: sudo apt-get install build-essential ncurses-dev libncurses5-dev gettext autoconf On RedHat, CentOS, or Amazon EC2: sudo yum install ncurses-devel Contributing Changes to the Code See the Guide for Developers. Contact Us Questions, comments, rants and raves can be posted to the official fish mailing list at https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/fish-users or join us on our gitter.im channel or IRC channel #fish at irc.oftc.net. Or use the fish tag on Stackoverflow for questions related to fish script and the fish tag on Superuser for all other questions (e.g., customizing colors, changing key bindings). Found a bug? Have an awesome idea? Please open an issue on this github page.