Flutter A new mobile app SDK to help developers and designers build modern mobile apps for iOS and Android. Flutter is an open-source project currently in beta. Documentation Main site: flutter.io Install Get started Contribute Fast development Flutters hot reload helps you quickly and easily experiment, build UIs, add features, and fix bugs. Experience sub-second reload times, without losing state, on emulators, simulators, and hardware for iOS and Android. Expressive, beautiful UIs Delight your users with Flutters built-in beautiful Material Design and Cupertino (iOS-flavor) widgets, rich motion APIs, smooth natural scrolling, and platform awareness. Browse the widget catalog. Modern, reactive framework Easily compose your UI with Flutters modern functional-reactive framework and rich set of platform, layout, and foundation widgets. Solve your tough UI challenges with powerful and flexible APIs for 2D, animation, gestures, effects, and more. ```dart class CounterState extends State { int counter = 0; void increment() { // Tells the Flutter framework that state has changed, // so the framework can run build() and update the display. setState(() { counter++; }); } Widget build(BuildContext context) { // This method is rerun every time setState is called. // The Flutter framework has been optimized to make rerunning // build methods fast, so that you can just rebuild anything that // needs updating rather than having to individually change // instances of widgets. return new Row( children: [ new RaisedButton( onPressed: increment, child: new Text(Increment), ), new Text(Count: $counter), ], ); } } ``` Browse the widget catalog and learn more about the functional-reactive framework. Access native features and SDKs Make your app come to life with platform APIs, 3rd party SDKs, and native code. Flutter lets you reuse your existing Java/Kotlin and ObjC/Swift code, and access native features and SDKs on Android and iOS. Accessing platform features is easy. Here is a snippet from our interop example: dart Future<Null> getBatteryLevel() async { var batteryLevel = unknown; try { int result = await methodChannel.invokeMethod(getBatteryLevel); batteryLevel = Battery level: $result%; } on PlatformException { batteryLevel = Failed to get battery level.; } setState(() { _batteryLevel = batteryLevel; }); } Learn how to use packages, or write platform channels, to access native code, APIs, and SDKs. Unified app development Flutter has the tools and libraries to help you easily bring your ideas to life on iOS and Android. If you dont have any mobile development experience, Flutter is an easy and fast way to build beautiful mobile apps. If you are an experienced iOS or Android developer, you can use Flutter for your views and leverage much of your existing Java/Kotlin/ObjC/Swift investment. Build Beautiful app UIs Rich 2D GPU-accelerated APIs Reactive framework Animation/motion APIs Material Design and iOS widgets Fluid coding experience Sub-second, stateful hot reload IntelliJ: refactor, code completion, etc Dart language and core libs Package manager Full-featured apps Interop with mobile OS APIs & SDKs Gradle/Java/Kotlin Cocoapods/ObjC/Swift Optimize Test Unit testing Integration testing On-device testing Debug IDE debugger Web-based debugger async/await aware Expression evaluator Profile Timeline CPU and memory In-app perf charts Deploy Compile Native ARM code Dead code elimination Distribution App Store Play Store Learn more about what makes Flutter special in the technical overview. Join us in our Gitter chat room or join our public mailing list, flutter-dev@googlegroups.com.