Spectacle ReactJS based Presentation Library Spectacle Boilerplate Contents MarkdownTOC depth=4 autolink=true bracket=round autoanchor=true Getting Started One Page Development Build & Deployment Presenting Controls Fullscreen PDF Export Basic Concepts Main file Themes createTheme(colors, fonts) FAQ Tag API Main Tags Deck Slide (Base) Notes MarkdownSlides Layout Tags Layout Fit Fill Markdown Tag Markdown Magic Tag Magic Element Tags Appear BlockQuote, Quote and Cite (Base) CodePane (Base) Code (Base) ComponentPlayground GoToAction (Base) Heading (Base) Image (Base) Link (Base) List & ListItem (Base) S (Base) Table, TableRow, TableBody, TableHeader, TableHeaderItem and TableItem (Base) Text (Base) Typeface Base Props Third Party Extensions /MarkdownTOC Getting Started The new best way to get started is by running create-react-app my-presentation --scripts-version spectacle-scripts. This will use create-react-app to create almost everything you need. This however, doesnt include publish scripts, and ejecting is required for fancy stuff. The second best way to get started is by using the Spectacle Boilerplate. Alternatively, you can npm install spectacle and write your own build configurations. We also provide full UMD builds (with a Spectacle global variable) of the library at dist/spectacle.js and dist/spectacle.min.js for more general use cases. You could, for example, include the library via a script tag with: https://unpkg.com/spectacle@VERSION/dist/spectacle.min.js. Note that we have webpack externals for react, react-dom, and prop-types, so you will need to provide them in your upstream build or something like linking in via script tags in your HTML page for all three libraries. This comports with our project dependencies which place these three libraries in peerDependencies. But really, it is SO much easier to just use the boilerplate. Trust me. One Page To aid with speedy development / kicking the tires on spectacle, we support using a simple boilerplate HTML page with a bespoke script tag that contains your entire presentation. The rest of the setup will take care of transpiling your React/ESnext code, providing Spectacle, React, and ReactDOM libraries, and being raring to go with a minimum of effort. We can start with this projects sample at one-page.html. Its essentially, the same presentation as the fully-built-from-source version, with a few notable exceptions: There are no imports or requires. Everything must come from the global namespace. This includes Spectacle, React, ReactDOM and all the Spectacle exports from ./src/index.js -- Deck, Slide, themes, etc. The presentation must include exactly one script tag with the type text/spectacle that is a function. Presently, that function is directly inserted inline into a wrapper code boilerplate as a React Component render function. The wrapper is transpiled. There should not be any extraneous content around it like outer variables or comments. Good examples: html <script type="text/spectacle"> () => ( <Deck>{/* SLIDES */}</Deck> ) </script> ```html () =&gt; { // Code-y code stuff in JS...</p> <pre><code>return ( &lt;Deck&gt;{/* SLIDES */}&lt;/Deck&gt; ); </code></pre> <p>} ``` Bad examples of what not to do: ```html // Outer comment (BAD) const outerVariable = "BAD";</p> <p>() =&gt; ( <Deck>{/<em> SLIDES </em>/}</Deck> ) ``` ... with those guidelines in mind, heres the boilerplate that you can literally copy-and-paste into an HTML file and start a Spectacle presentation that works from the get go! ```html <!DOCTYPE html> Spectacle