Victory an ecosystem of composable React components for building interactive data visualizations. Getting Started Victory Native API Documentation Guides Contributing IMPORTANT See the docs and examples on the website: http://formidable.com/open-source/victory. Experiment with all Victory components in this JSBin or this JSFiddle. For support, join the Gitter chat room at https://gitter.im/FormidableLabs/victory. Getting started Add Victory to your project: sh $ npm install victory --save Add your first Victory component: ```js import React, { Component } from react; import { render } from react-dom; import { VictoryPie } from victory; class PieChart extends Component { render() { return ( ); } } render(, document.getElementById(app)); ``` VictoryPie component will be rendered, and you should see: Requirements Projects using Victory should also depend on React and prop-types. Victory Native Want to use Victory with React Native? Check out victory-native Victory Native shares most of its code with Victory, and has a nearly identical api! Contributing The victory repo aggregates stable victory components that are developed in other repos. The victory repo is only updated with new releases, but the following repos are under very active development. victory-core victory-chart victory-pie Please review our Code of Conduct before contributing. For a detailed contribution guide, please see CONTRIBUTING in the project builder archetype. ```sh Clone the Victory repo $ git clone git@github.com:FormidableLabs/victory.git $ cd victory Run the demo app server $ npm start Open the demo app $ open http://localhost:3000 Run checks (lint and tests) $ npm test ``` Multi-repo development Victory uses lank for multi-repo development. Use a lank workflow to test changes in victory dependencies. Heres an example of setting up lank to test changes in victory-core from victory-chart First, make sure that all of your Victory repos are siblings in the same directory ```sh Install lank globally $ npm install -g lank `` Victory repos are already configured with appropriate.lankrcand lank scripts. To test changes invictory-corefromvictory-chart`: ```sh Run all commands from the root of victory-chart $ cd victory-chart Run lank link to remove victory-core from node_modules $ lank link Watch for changes to lanked repos. Leave this process running in its own terminal window $ npm run lank-watch Run a dev server with your lanked repos. In a new terminal window... $ npm run lank-run ``` Refresh your browser to pick up changes. For more on the development environment, see DEVELOPMENT in the project builder archetype. Important This project is in alpha release. Were hard at work fixing bugs and improving the API. Be prepared for breaking changes! SEMVER Minor version bumps should be considered breaking changes until we hit v1.0.0. Patches can be considered safe. Caveats git installs using npm 2 may fail in postinstall. If you are consuming Victory via git installs please use npm >=3.0.0 Issues Jest Snapshots If you want to use Jest snapshot testing with Victory, you may encounter a problem where the Jest snapshot changes every time, due to a randomly generated clipId being used for a VictoryClipContainer group component. The solution to this is to set a static clipId on your VictoryClipContainer. For example, when creating a VictoryLine component, you can pass a groupComponent prop: js <VictoryLine groupComponent={<VictoryClipContainer clipId={1} />} /> Now the clipId attached to your VictoryLine component will always be the same, and your snapshot will not change with each test run.