Version 5 – the iconic SVG, font, and CSS framework The internets most popular icon toolkit has been redesigned and built from scratch. On top of this, features like icon font ligatures, an SVG framework, official NPM packages for popular frontend libraries like React, and access to a new CDN. Not familiar with Font Awesome 5? Learn more about our successful Kickstarter and plan. You can also order Font Awesome Pro which includes tons more icons directly from fontawesome.com. Documentation Learn how to get started with Font Awesome and then dive deeper into other and advanced topics: Using Font Awesome on the Web With SVG with JavaScript With web fonts with CSS Upgrading from version 4 Installing Font Awesome with a package manager Downloading + hosting Font Awesome yourself Performance and security Accessibility Troubleshooting Advanced Options & Techniques Using CSS pseudo-elements SVG sprites The Font Awesome API SVG symbols SVG JavaScript Core Server side rendering Using Font Awesome on the Desktop Getting started Upgrading from version 4 Using ligatures Using glyphs Troubleshooting Where did Font Awesome 4 (or 3) go? Now that Font Awesome 5 has been released we are marking version 4 as end-of-life. We dont plan on releasing any further versions of the 4.x or 3.x. Documentation is still available but its moved to https://fontawesome.com/v4.7.0 and https://fontawesome.com/v3.2.1. The Git repository for v4.7.0 and v3.2.1 can be found in our GitHub releases. Change log Well keep track of each release in the CHANGELOG.md Looking for older versions of Font Awesome? Check the releases. Upgrading From time-to-time well have special upgrading instructions from one version to the next. Check out the UPGRADING.md guide when you upgrade your dependencies. Code of conduct We will behave ourselves if you behave yourselves. For more details see our CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md. Contributing Please read through our contributing guidelines. Included are directions for opening issues. Versioning Font Awesome will be maintained under the Semantic Versioning guidelines as much as possible. Releases will be numbered with the following format: <major>.<minor>.<patch> For more information on SemVer, please visit http://semver.org. The major version "5" is part of an umbrella release. It includes many different types of files and technologies. Therefore we deviate from normal SemVer in the following ways: Any release may update the design, look-and-feel, or branding of an existing icon We will never intentionally release a patch version update that breaks backward compatibility A minor release may include backward-incompatible changes but we will write clear upgrading instructions in UPGRADING.md A minor or patch release will never remove icons Bug fixes will be addressed as patch releases unless they include backward incompability then they will be minor releases License Font Awesome Free is free, open source, and GPL friendly. You can use it for commercial projects, open source projects, or really almost whatever you want. Icons — CC BY 4.0 License In the Font Awesome Free download, the CC BY 4.0 license applies to all icons packaged as .svg and .js files types. Fonts — SIL OFL 1.1 License In the Font Awesome Free download, the SIL OLF license applies to all icons packaged as web and desktop font files. Code — MIT License In the Font Awesome Free download, the MIT license applies to all non-font and non-icon files. Attribution is required by MIT, SIL OLF, and CC BY licenses. Downloaded Font Awesome Free files already contain embedded comments with sufficient attribution, so you shouldnt need to do anything additional when using these files normally. Weve kept attribution comments terse, so we ask that you do not actively work to remove them from files, especially code. Theyre a great way for folks to learn about Font Awesome. Team Dave Gandy Travis Chase Rob Madole Brian Talbot Jory Raphael Mike Wilkerson Geremia Taglialatela