Frappe Charts GitHub-inspired modern, intuitive and responsive charts with zero dependencies Explore Demos » Edit at CodePen » Contents Installation Usage Updates License Installation Install via npm: console $ npm install frappe-charts and include in your project: js import { Chart } from "frappe-charts" ...or include within your HTML html <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/frappe-charts@1.1.0/dist/frappe-charts.min.iife.js"></script> <!-- or --> <script src="https://unpkg.com/frappe-charts@1.1.0/dist/frappe-charts.min.iife.js"></script> Usage ```js const data = { labels: ["12am-3am", "3am-6pm", "6am-9am", "9am-12am", "12pm-3pm", "3pm-6pm", "6pm-9pm", "9am-12am" ], datasets: [ { name: "Some Data", type: "bar", values: [25, 40, 30, 35, 8, 52, 17, -4] }, { name: "Another Set", type: "line", values: [25, 50, -10, 15, 18, 32, 27, 14] } ] } const chart = new frappe.Chart("#chart", { // or a DOM element, // new Chart() in case of ES6 module with above usage title: "My Awesome Chart", data: data, type: axis-mixed, // or bar, line, scatter, pie, percentage height: 250, colors: [#7cd6fd, #743ee2] }) ``` If you want to contribute: Clone this repo. cd into project directory npm install npm run dev Updates v1.0.0 Major rewrite out. Some new features include: Mixed type axis datasets Stacked bar charts Value over data points Y Markers and regions Dot size, Bar space size, and other options Legend for axis charts We would be looking to incorporate existing PRs and issues in the meantime. Please read #93 for v0.1.0 updates on rework and development. v0.0.7 Custom color values for charts as hex codes. The API now takes an array of colors for all charts instead of a color for each dataset. @iamkdevs blog on usage with Angular. v0.0.5 More flexible Y values: independent from exponent, minimum Y axis point for line graphs. Customisable Heatmap colors; check out the Halloween demo on the website :D Tooltip values can be formatted. v0.0.4 Build update: Shipped an ES6 module, along with the browser friendly IIFE. v0.0.2 We have an animated Pie Chart! Thanks @sheweichun. @tobiaslins contributed tweaks for his quest to make these easy to use with React. Check out his repo and updates at #24 to learn more :) A new logo. v0.0.1 The very first version out, with animatable bars and lines, a percentage chart and a heatmap. GitHub-style. License This repository has been released under the MIT License Project maintained by Frappe. Used in ERPNext. Read the blog post.