Froala Design Blocks Over 170 responsive design blocks ready to be used in your web or mobile apps. All blocks are based on the Bootstrap Library, and they are the building blocks for beautiful websites. Discuss it on Product Hunt 🦄 Explore Design Blocks » WYSIWYG HTML Editor · Pages · Blog · Download Table of contents Quick start Whats included? Bugs and feature requests Dependencies Categories Browser support Community Contributors Copyright and license Quick start There are several ways to start using the Froala Design Blocks: Download the latest release and then read the Whats included section below Clone the repo: git clone https://github.com/froala/design-blocks.git Install with npm: npm install froala-design-blocks Development The project needs to be compiled, therefore the files in the src folder are those well be developing on. Dont make changes in the dist or demo folders as they will be overwritten when src is compiled. Get code bash git clone git@github.com:froala/design-blocks.git cd design-blocks Install dependencies and run project bash npm install npm run gulp With the gulp server running, the project is available at the following address localhost:8001. The src files are automatically compiled when changes have been made. Contributing All contributions are more than welcomed. Contributions may close an issue, fix a bug (reported or not reported), add new design blocks, improve the existing code, add new feature, and so on. The dev branch is the default and base branch for the project. It is used for development and all Pull Requests should go there. Please make sure not to commit the dist folder in the dev branch. Whats included Within the download archive youll find the following directories and files, logically grouping common assets and providing both compiled and minified variations. Youll see something like this: design-blocks/ ├── dist/ │ ├── css/ │ │ ├── froala_blocks.css │ │ └── froala_blocks.min.css │ └── imgs/ │ │── call_to_action.html │ │── contacts.html │ │── contents.html │ │── features.html │ │── footers.html │ │── forms.html │ │── headers.html │ │── index.html │ │── pricings.html │ │── teams.html │ └── testimonials.html ├── psds/ ├── screenshots/ └── src/ We provide compiled CSS (froala_blocks.css), as well as compiled and minified CSS (froala_blocks.min.css). Also, in the downloaded archive you will find useful images and PSD files that you can use to create new backgrounds. In the screenshots folder, there are the screenshots of all design blocks. Bugs and feature requests Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the issue guidelines and search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, please open a new issue. Dependencies Bootstrap. Froala Design Blocks is built on Bootstrap 4 library and fully supports it. It uses the Javascript files only for the header design blocks, so if you dont need them, we recommend not to include the Bootstrap JS files in order to reduce your bundle size. Font Awesome. Were using the amazing Font Awesome library for the social network icons. Google Fonts. By default, the Design Blocks toolkit is built using the Roboto font, however that can easily be changed to other fonts. Categories Call to action - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/call_to_action.html Contacts - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/contacts.html Contents - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/contents.html Features - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/features.html Footers - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/footers.html Forms - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/forms.html Headers - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/headers.html Pricings - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/pricings.html Teams - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/teams.html Testimonials - https://github.com/froala/design-blocks/blob/master/dist/testimonials.html Browser Support At the moment, we aim to support all major web browsers. Any issue in the browsers listed below should be reported as a bug: Internet Explorer 10+ Microsoft Edge 14+ Safari 6+ Firefox (Current - 1) and Current versions Chrome (Current - 1) and Current versions Opera (Current - 1) and Current versions Safari iOS 7.0+ Android 6.0+ (Current - 1) and Current means that we support the current stable version of the browser and the version that precedes it. Community Get updates on Froala Design Blocks development and chat with the project maintainers and community members: Follow @froala on Twitter Read and subscribe to The Official Froala Blog Check the Official Website Join us on Facebook Google+ Pinterest Contributors Special thanks to everyone who contributed to getting the Froala Design Blocks to the current state. Shourav Chowdhury - source of inspiration for the images Copyright and license Code and documentation copyright 2017 Froala Labs. Code released under the Froala Open Web Design License.