WeChat Lucky Money This Android app helps you snatch red envelopes in WeChat. It detects red envelopes automatically, and clicks to open them faster than your imagination. Available in English and Chinese. Please goto the Release page to download the latest version. Spotlights What to watch is at your choice[?] Three levels of watch options: notification/chat list/chat page. Whatever a coutious man or an ambitious one you wanna be, the choice is at yours. More intelligent algorithm Multiple features used to identify a red envelope. No more repeated clickings. Anti-anti-plugin strategies are protecting the app from disability. Auto update checking Work with the latest version of WeChat. Update available inside your app. Light, safe, and trustful Tha package is as light as 1Mb. With code open sourced, active community discussions, tens of thousands of downloads, its worth your trust. How to use Open the app, turn on the service. Do whatever you wanna do. Wait for the lucky money comes in your pocket. Implementation See the document, which is targeted at the dev branch (deprecated) and is IN CHINESE. If it bothers you, leave your message in the ISSUES. Update history For full history, see CHANGELOG. License The project was heavily inspired by the app demonstrated on XiaoMis news conference for its phone product last autumn. This app might alter the natural way of interactions with WeChat. When you are using the code and its accessories, you are fully responsible for any possible consequences. The project is licensed to the MIT. Snapshots