My Python Examples. Here is more detailed information about scripts I have written. I do not consider myself a programmer; I create these little programs as experiments to play with the language, or to solve problems for myself. I would gladly accept pointers from others to improve the code and make it more efficient, or simplify the code. If you would like to make any comments then please feel free to email me at craig@geekcomputers.co.uk. In the scripts the comments and other documents are lined up correctly when they are viewed in Notepad++. This is what I use to code Python scripts. batch_file_rename.py - This batch renames a group of files in a given directory, once you pass the current and the new extensions. create_dir_if_not_there.py - Checks to see if a directory exists in the users home directory, if not then create it. Fast Youtube Downloader - Downloads youtube videos quickly with parallel threads using aria2c Google Image Downloader - Query the specific term and retrieve images from the google image database. dir_test.py - Tests to see if the directory testdir exists, if not it will create the directory for you. env_check.py - This script will check to see if all of the environment variables required are set. fileinfo.py - Shows file information for a given file. folder_size.py - Scans the current directory and all subdirectories and displays the size. logs.py - This script will search for all *.log files in the given directory, zip them using the program you specify, and then date stamp them. move_files_over_x_days.py - Moves all files over 240 days old from the source directory to the destination directory. nslookup_check.py - This simple script opens the file server_list.txt and then does an nslookup for each one to check the DNS entry. osinfo.py - Displays some information about the OS on which you are running this script. ping_servers.py - This script, depending on the arguments supplied, will ping the servers associated with that application group. ping_subnet.py - After supplying the first 3 octets this file scans the final range for available addresses. powerdown_startup.py - This file goes through the server list and pings the machine, if it is up it will load the putty session, if it is not it will notify you. puttylogs.py - This file zips up all the logs in the given directory. script_count.py - This file scans the scripts directory and gives a count of the different types of scripts. script_listing.py - This file will list all the files in the given directory, and go through all the subdirectories as well. testlines.py - This simple script opens a file and prints out 100 lines of whatever is the set for the line variable. tweeter.py - This script allows you to tweet text or a picture from the terminal. serial_scanner.py contains a method called ListAvailablePorts which returns a list with the names of the serial ports that are in use in the computer, this method works only on Linux and Windows (can be extended for mac osx). If no port is found, an empty list is returned. get_youtube_view.py - This is very simple python script to get more views for your youtube videos. Useful for repeating songs on youtube. CountMillionCharacter.py And CountMillionCharacter2.0.py - Counts character scripts, or how much characters are present on any text based file. xkcd_downloader.py - Downloads the latest XKCD comic and places them in a new folder called "comics". timymodule.py - A great alternative to Pythons timeit module and easier to use. calculator.py - Uses Pythons eval() function to implement a calculator. Google_News.py - Uses BeautifulSoup to provide Latest News Headline along with news link. cricket_live_score - Uses BeautifulSoup to provide live cricket score. youtube.py - Takes a song name as input and fetches the youtube url of the best matching song and plays it.