scrcpy (v1.2) This application provides display and control of Android devices connected on USB (or over TCP/IP). It does not require any root access. It works on GNU/Linux, Windows and MacOS. Requirements The Android part requires at least API 21 (Android 5.0). You need adb. It is available in the Android SDK platform tools, or packaged in your distribution (android-adb-tools). On Windows, if you use the prebuilt application, it is already included. Otherwise, just download the platform-tools and extract the following files to a directory accessible from your PATH: - adb.exe - AdbWinApi.dll - AdbWinUsbApi.dll Make sure you enabled adb debugging on your device(s). The client requires FFmpeg and LibSDL2. On Windows, they are included in the prebuilt application. Build and install System-specific steps Linux Install the required packages from your package manager. Debian/Ubuntu ```bash runtime dependencies sudo apt install ffmpeg libsdl2-2.0.0 client build dependencies sudo apt install make gcc pkg-config meson \ libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libavutil-dev \ libsdl2-dev server build dependencies sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk ``` Fedora ```bash enable RPM fusion free sudo dnf install https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm client build dependencies sudo dnf install SDL2-devel ffms2-devel meson gcc make server build dependencies sudo dnf install java ``` Arch Linux Two AUR packages have been created by users: scrcpy scrcpy-prebuiltserver Windows For Windows, for simplicity, prebuilt archives with all the dependencies (including adb) are available: scrcpy-win32-v1.2.zip. (SHA-256: a1fe1de67ec75dcf970ca5d97a04c26ff0f2d61871f2ef51b6f2f0bf666966b2) scrcpy-win64-v1.2.zip. (SHA-256: 35ae3bcee51771e7c51b8a8be87aef2295c9f267606a7cf83ebb0a4d583ef536) Instead, you may want to build it manually. Cross-compile from Linux This is the preferred method (and the way the release is built). From Debian, install mingw: bash sudo apt install mingw-w64 mingw-w64-tools You also need the JDK to build the server: bash sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk Then generate the releases: bash make -f Makefile.CrossWindows It will generate win32 and win64 releases into dist/. In MSYS2 From Windows, you need MSYS2 to build the project. From an MSYS2 terminal, install the required packages: ```bash runtime dependencies pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-SDL2 \ mingw-w64-x86_64-ffmpeg client build dependencies pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-make \ mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc \ mingw-w64-x86_64-pkg-config \ mingw-w64-x86_64-meson ``` For a 32 bits version, replace x86_64 by i686: ```bash runtime dependencies pacman -S mingw-w64-i686-SDL2 \ mingw-w64-i686-ffmpeg client build dependencies pacman -S mingw-w64-i686-make \ mingw-w64-i686-gcc \ mingw-w64-i686-pkg-config \ mingw-w64-i686-meson ``` Java (>= 7) is not available in MSYS2, so if you plan to build the server, install it manually and make it available from the PATH: bash export PATH="$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH" Mac OS The application is available in Homebrew. Just install it: bash brew install scrcpy Instead, you may want to build it manually. Install the packages: ```bash runtime dependencies brew install sdl2 ffmpeg client build dependencies brew install pkg-config meson ``` Additionally, if you want to build the server, install Java 8 from Caskroom, and make it avaliable from the PATH: bash brew tap caskroom/versions brew cask install java8 export JAVA_HOME="$(/usr/libexec/java_home --version 1.8)" export PATH="$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH" Docker See pierlon/scrcpy-docker. Common steps Install the Android SDK (Android Studio), and set ANDROID_HOME to its directory. For example: bash export ANDROID_HOME=~/android/sdk Clone the project: bash git clone https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy cd scrcpy Then, build: bash meson x --buildtype release --strip -Db_lto=true cd x ninja You can test it from here: bash ninja run Or you can install it on the system: bash sudo ninja install # without sudo on Windows This installs two files: /usr/local/bin/scrcpy /usr/local/share/scrcpy/scrcpy-server.jar Just remove them to "uninstall" the application. Prebuilt server Since the server binary, that will be pushed to the Android device, does not depend on your system and architecture, you may want to use the prebuilt binary instead: scrcpy-server-v1.2.jar. (SHA-256: cb39654ed2fda3d30ddff292806950ccc5c394375ea12b974f790c7f38f61f60) In that case, the build does not require Java or the Android SDK. Download the prebuilt server somewhere, and specify its path during the Meson configuration: bash meson x --buildtype release --strip -Db_lto=true \ -Dprebuilt_server=/path/to/scrcpy-server.jar cd x ninja sudo ninja install Run At runtime, adb must be accessible from your PATH. If everything is ok, just plug an Android device, and execute: bash scrcpy It accepts command-line arguments, listed by: bash scrcpy --help For example, to decrease video bitrate to 2Mbps (default is 8Mbps): bash scrcpy -b 2M To limit the video dimensions (e.g. if the device is 2540×1440, but the host screen is smaller, or cannot decode such a high definition): bash scrcpy -m 1024 If several devices are listed in adb devices, you must specify the serial: bash scrcpy -s 0123456789abcdef To show physical touches while scrcpy is running: bash scrcpy -t To run without installing: bash ./run x [options] (where x is your build directory). Shortcuts | Action | Shortcut | | -------------------------------------- |:---------------------------- | | switch fullscreen mode | Ctrl+f | | resize window to 1:1 (pixel-perfect) | Ctrl+g | | resize window to remove black borders | Ctrl+x \| Double-click¹ | | click on HOME | Ctrl+h \| Middle-click | | click on BACK | Ctrl+b \| Right-click² | | click on APP_SWITCH | Ctrl+s | | click on MENU | Ctrl+m | | click on VOLUME_UP | Ctrl+↑ (up) | | click on VOLUME_DOWN | Ctrl+↓ (down) | | click on POWER | Ctrl+p | | turn screen on | Right-click² | | paste computer clipboard to device | Ctrl+v | | enable/disable FPS counter (on stdout) | Ctrl+i | | install APK from computer | drag & drop APK file | ¹Double-click on black borders to remove them. ²Right-click turns the screen on if it was off, presses BACK otherwise. Why scrcpy? A colleague challenged me to find a name as unpronounceable as gnirehtet. [strcpy] copies a string; scrcpy copies a screen. Common issues See the FAQ. Developers Read the developers page. Licence Copyright (C) 2018 Genymobile Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. Articles Introducing scrcpy Scrcpy now works wirelessly