Grav Grav is a Fast, Simple, and Flexible, file-based Web-platform. There is Zero installation required. Just extract the ZIP archive, and you are already up and running. It follows similar principles to other flat-file CMS platforms, but has a different design philosophy than most. Grav comes with a powerful Package Management System to allow for simple installation and upgrading of plugins and themes, as well as simple updating of Grav itself. The underlying architecture of Grav is designed to use well-established and best-in-class technologies to ensure that Grav is simple to use and easy to extend. Some of these key technologies include: Twig Templating: for powerful control of the user interface Markdown: for easy content creation YAML: for simple configuration Parsedown: for fast Markdown and Markdown Extra support Doctrine Cache: layer for performance Pimple Dependency Injection Container: for extensibility and maintainability Symfony Event Dispatcher: for plugin event handling Symfony Console: for CLI interface Gregwar Image Library: for dynamic image manipulation Requirements PHP 5.5.9 or higher. Check the required modules list Check the Apache or IIS requirements QuickStart These are the options to get Grav: Downloading a Grav Package You can download a ready-built package from the Downloads page on https://getgrav.org With Composer You can create a new project with the latest stable Grav release with the following command: $ composer create-project getgrav/grav ~/webroot/grav From GitHub Clone the Grav repository from https://github.com/getgrav/grav to a folder in the webroot of your server, e.g. ~/webroot/grav. Launch a terminal or console and navigate to the webroot folder: $ cd ~/webroot $ git clone https://github.com/getgrav/grav.git Install the plugin and theme dependencies by using the Grav CLI application bin/grav: $ cd ~/webroot/grav $ bin/grav install Check out the install procedures for more information. Adding Functionality You can download plugins or themes manually from the appropriate tab on the Downloads page on https://getgrav.org, but the preferred solution is to use the Grav Package Manager or GPM: $ bin/gpm index This will display all the available plugins and then you can install one or more with: $ bin/gpm install <plugin/theme> Updating To update Grav you should use the Grav Package Manager or GPM: $ bin/gpm selfupgrade To update plugins and themes: $ bin/gpm update Contributing We appreciate any contribution to Grav, whether it is related to bugs, grammar, or simply a suggestion or improvement! Please refer to the Contributing guide for more guidance on this topic. Security issues If you discover a possible security issue related to Grav or one of its plugins, please email the core team at contact@getgrav.org and well address it as soon as possible. Getting Started What is Grav? Install Grav in few seconds Understand the Configuration Take a peek at our available free Skeletons If you have questions, jump on our Slack Room! Have fun! Exploring More Have a look at our Basic Tutorial Dive into more advanced functions Learn about the Grav CLI Review examples in the Grav Cookbook Backers Support Grav with a monthly donation to help us continue development. [Become a backer] Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] License See LICENSE Running Tests First install the dev dependencies by running composer update from the Grav root. Then composer test will run the Unit Tests, which should be always executed successfully on any site. Windows users should use the composer test-windows command. You can also run a single unit test file, e.g. composer test tests/unit/Grav/Common/AssetsTest.php