Insomnia REST Client Insomnia is a cross-platform REST client, built on top of Electron. Download Insomnia is available for Mac, Windows, and Linux and can be downloaded from the website. https://insomnia.rest/download Bugs and Feature Requests Have a bug or a feature request? First, read the issue guidelines and search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, please open a new issue. For more generic product questions and feedback, join the Slack Team or email support@insomnia.rest Contributing Please read through our contributing guidelines. Included are directions for opening issues, coding standards, and notes on development. Editor preferences are available in the editor config for easy use in common text editors. Read more and download plugins at editorconfig.org. Developing Development on Insomnia can be done on Mac, Windows, or Linux as long as you have NodeJS 8 and Git. Initial Dev Setup This repository is structured as a monorepo and contains many Node.JS packages. Each package has its own set of command, but the most common commands are available from the root [package.json](package.json) adn can be accessed using the npm run ... command. Here are the only three commands you should need to start developing on the app. ```bash Install and Link Dependencies npm run bootstrap Run Tests npm test Start App with Live Reload npm run app-start ``` Editor Requirements You can use any editor youd like, but make sure to have support/plugins for the following tools: ESLint – For catching syntax problems and common errors JSX Syntax – For React components Flow – For type annotations Plugins Here is a list of plugins available for installation via NPM. JWT Decode – Decode header or payload of JWT tokens XDebug – Enable Xdebug debugging by adding an XDEBUG_SESSION cookie to the request. Default Headers – Set default headers on requests Random Number – Generate a random integer between a minimum and maximum Random Credit Card – Generate random credit card numbers Community Projects Swaggymnia – Generate Swagger documentation for your existing API in Insomnia. License MIT © Insomnia