Winds 2.0 - A Beautiful Open Source RSS & Podcast App Whats new: In addition to the desktop apps theres now a web version of Winds available at https://winds.getstream.io/ Stream is sponsoring 1 person to work full time on Winds: https://angel.co/stream/jobs/376455-senior-javascript-frontend-engineer Winds is a beautiful open-source RSS and Podcast app created using React/Redux/Node. Use the free hosted version or run it on your own server and customize it as you see fit. Contributions are always appreciated. In fact were planning a series of tutorials to help you get started. Activity Feeds & Discovery in Winds are powered by Stream, the app leverages Algolia for search, AWS for hosting, MongoDB Atlas for a hosted database (DBaaS), and SendGrid for email. All of these services have a free tier. To get started with Winds 2.0, please visit https://getstream.io/winds/ TOCd Roadmap Powered By Stream Algolia MongoDB SendGrid AWS Tutorials Download Contributing to Winds Support Maintenance & Contributions Roadmap Help us improve Winds and/or vote on the Roadmap for 2.1 [ ] Search detail screen [ ] Playlist support (partially implemented) [ ] Team support (share an activity feed with colleagues or friends to discover and collaborate) [ ] Mobile application powered by React Native [ ] Folder Support Powered By Express React & Redux Algolia MongoDB Atlas SendGrid Bull Mercury Stream Sentry AWS The full stack can be found on StackShare.io. Stream Stream is an API for building activity feeds. For Winds the follow suggestions and the list of articles from the feeds you follow is powered by Stream. Stream accounts are free for up to 3 million feed updates and handle personalization (machine learning) for up to 100 users. Algolia Algolia is used for lightning fast and relevant search. We use their JavaScript search client to easily setup the Winds search implementation. Algolia, accounts are free up to 10k records and 100k operations. MongoDB MongoDB Atlas provides a Database as a Service, and serves as the backend datastore for Winds. Tutorials & Blog Posts The following tutorials will not only help you start contributing to Winds, but also provide inspiration for your next app. Note: Were actively working on this portion of the README. To stay up to date with the latest information, please signup for the hosted version at https://getstream.io/winds. Architecting a large React/Redux codebase Building activity streams and newsfeeds on top of Stream Implementing search with Algolia MongoDB database schema design Design thought process for Winds 2.0 PM2 in production environments Creating a RESTful API design with Express.js Preparing an Electron app for deployment to the macOS store Deploying to the macOS store Electron gotchas The Winds Stack Building Touch Bar Support for macOS Testing Node.js in 2018 Download To download Winds 2.0, visit https://getstream.io/winds/. Contributing to Winds TL;DR Commands: brew install redis mongodb brew services start mongodb brew services start redis cd winds/api yarn cd ../app yarn Sign up for both Stream and Algolia, and create the following .env file in the app directory, replacing the keys where indicated: ``` DATABASE_URI=mongodb://localhost/WINDS CACHE_URI=redis://localhost:6379 JWT_SECRET=YOUR_JWT_SECRET API_PORT=8080 REACT_APP_API_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:8080 STREAM_API_BASE_URL=https://windspersonalization.getstream.io/personalization/v1.0 STREAM_APP_ID=YOUR_STREAM_APP_ID REACT_APP_STREAM_APP_ID=YOUR_STREAM_APP_ID #(this needs to be included twice, once for the backend, and once for the frontend to make realtime connections directly to Stream) STREAM_API_KEY=YOUR_STREAM_API_KEY STREAM_API_SECRET=YOUR_STREAM_API_SECRET REACT_APP_ALGOLIA_APP_ID=YOUR_ALGOLIA_APP_ID REACT_APP_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_KEY=YOUR_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_ONLY_API_KEY ALGOLIA_WRITE_KEY=YOUR_ALGOLIA_ADMIN_API_KEY MERCURY_KEY=YOUR_KEY_HERE ``` Note: If you are running the test suite, you will need to have a test version of the .env file inside of the api/test directory. Then run: pm2 start process_dev.json cd app && yarn start Clone the Repo bash git clone git@github.com:GetStream/winds.git Install dependencies The following instructions are geared towards Mac users who can use brew (Homebrew) to install most dependencies. Ubuntu users can use apt, and Windows users will have to install directly from the dependencys site. Non-debian-based Linux users will probably be able to figure it out on their own :) cd Winds/app yarn cd ../api yarn Start MongoDB Locally Winds uses MongoDB as the main datastore - it contains all users, rss feeds, podcasts, episodes, articles, and shares. If youre on a Mac, you can install MongoDB through Homebrew by running: brew install mongodb (You can also install MongoDB from the official MongoDB site.) You can also run MongoDB in the background by running: brew services start mongodb Start Redis Locally At Stream, we use Redis as an in-memory storage for the Winds podcast processing and RSS processing workers. It contains a list of podcasts and RSS feeds, which the workers pick up and process using the bull messaging system. If youre on a Mac, you can install Redis through Homebrew by running: brew install redis (You can also install Redis from the official Redis site.) Then, start Redis by running: redis-server ...which creates (by default) a dump.rdb file in your current directory and stores a cached version of the database in that location. You can also run Redis in the background by running: brew services start redis Loading Test Data For testing purposes, you will want to use the test data located here. Use mongoimport or mongorestore to import the data. There are two username and password combinations for testing: Username: admin@admin.com Password: admin Username: test@test.com Password: test You will need to run the FLUSHALL command in Redis to ensure that the new content is picked up. Note: This will override any local data that you may have. Please be cautious! Also, this will not create Stream follows – please followo feeds manually to generate them. Stream Sign up and Create a Stream App To contribute to Winds, sign up for Stream to utilize the activity and timeline feeds. (Reminder: Stream is free for applications with less than 3,000,000 updates per month.) Sign up for Stream here Create a new Stream app Find the App ID, API Key, and API Secret for your new Stream app Add your Stream App ID, API Key, and API Secret to your .env Append the Stream App ID, API Key, and API secret to your .env file: STREAM_APP_ID=YOUR_STREAM_APP_ID STREAM_API_KEY=YOUR_STREAM_API_KEY STREAM_API_SECRET=YOUR_STREAM_API_SECRET Create Your Stream Feed Groups Once youve signed in, create "feed groups" for your Stream app. A "feed group" defines a certain type of feed within your application. Use the "Add Feed Group" button to create the following feeds: | feed group name | feed group type | | --------------- | --------------- | | podcast | flat | | rss | flat | | user | flat | | timeline | flat | | user_episode | flat | | user_article | flat | Its fine to enable "Realtime Notifications" for each of these feed groups, though we wont be using those yet. Algolia Sign up for Algolia and Create an Algolia App and Index In addition to Stream, you also need to sign up for Algolia, to contribute to Winds, for the search functionality. (Algolia is free for applications with up to 10k records.) Sign up for Algolia here From the Applications page, click "New Application" and create a new Algolia application. (We recommend something similar to my-winds-app) (Select the datacenter thats closest to you.) From the application page, select "Indices" and click "Add New Index". (We recommend something similar to winds-main-index) Add Your Algolia Application Id, Search-Only Api Key and Admin Api Key to Your .env File From your app, click the "API Keys" button on the left to find your app ID and API keys. Append your Algolia application ID, search-only API Key and Admin API Key to your .env file to look like this: REACT_APP_ALGOLIA_APP_ID=YOUR_ALGOLIA_APP_ID REACT_APP_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_KEY=YOUR_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_ONLY_API_KEY ALGOLIA_WRITE_KEY=YOUR_ALGOLIA_ADMIN_API_KEY Start Backend Services From the root directory, run: pm2 start process_dev.json To see logging information for all processes, run: pm2 logs Start Frontend Electron / Web App Server cd app && yarn start Running tests Winds API server uses: Mocha as testing framework Chai as assertion library Sinon as mocking library nock as HTTP mocking library mock-require as module mocking library Tests are located in api/test folder. File structure is intentionally mirroring files in api/src to simplify matching tests to tested code. To run tests: cd api && yarn run test To run tests with extended stack traces (useful when debugging async issues): cd api && yarn run test_deep Adding new tests Add your code to a file in api/test folder (preferably mirroring existing file from api/src folder). Refer to Mocha documentation for examples of using BDD-like DSL for writing tests. Modules are mocked in api/test-entry.js as mocks have to be installed before any modules are loaded. Fixtures are loaded via loadFixture function from api/test/fixtures folder Various utility functions are provided in api/test/util.js (See other tests for expamles of usage). Building a Production Version Build a production version of Winds by running: ./build.sh This creates production-ready JS files in api/dist. To run the production JS files: pm2 start process_prod.json Debugging RSS & Podcast Issues Unfortunately there is no unified standard for RSS. Go to the api directory and run yarn link to make these commands available: winds rss https://techcrunch.com/feed/ For podcasts: winds podcast https://www.npr.org/rss/podcast.php\?id\=510289 For Open Graph scraping winds og http://www.planetary.org/multimedia/planetary-radio/show/2018/0509-amy-mainzer-neowise.html RSS Discovery winds discover mashable.com Article parsing (using mercury) winds article https://alexiskold.net/2018/04/12/meet-12-startups-from-techstars-nyc-winter-2018-program/ Pull requests for improved RSS compatibility are much appreciated. Most of the parsing codebase is located in api/src/parsers/. Support All support is handled via GitHub Issues. If youre unfamiliar with creating an Issue on GitHub, please follow these instructions. Maintenance and Contributions Thank you to all of the maintainers and contributors whove helped Winds become what it is today and help it stay up and running every day. We couldnt do it without you! Special Shoutouts To: Hackernoon Product Hunt StackShare Primary Maintainers Nick Parsons Ken Hoff Thierry Schellenbach Josh Tilton Contributors Tommaso Barbugli Dwight Gunning Matt Gauger Max Klyga Zhomart Mukhamejanov Julian Xhokaxhiu Jonathon Belotti The Gitter Badger Meriadec Pillet Alex Sinnott Lawal Sauban Revive RSS RSS is an amazing open standard. It is probably the most pleasant way to stay up to date with the sites and podcasts you care about. Our reasons for contributing to Winds are explained in the blogpost Winds 2.0 Its time to Revive RSS. In this section we will list other open source and commercial projects that are having an impact on Reviving RSS: Miniflux TwitRSSMe Feedly NewsBlur Feedity