The Silver Searcher A code searching tool similar to ack, with a focus on speed. Do you know C? Want to improve ag? I invite you to pair with me. Whats so great about Ag? It is an order of magnitude faster than ack. It ignores file patterns from your .gitignore and .hgignore. If there are files in your source repo you dont want to search, just add their patterns to a .ignore file. (*cough* *.min.js *cough*) The command name is 33% shorter than ack, and all keys are on the home row! Ag is quite stable now. Most changes are new features, minor bug fixes, or performance improvements. Its much faster than Ack in my benchmarks: ack test_blah ~/code/ 104.66s user 4.82s system 99% cpu 1:50.03 total ag test_blah ~/code/ 4.67s user 4.58s system 286% cpu 3.227 total Ack and Ag found the same results, but Ag was 34x faster (3.2 seconds vs 110 seconds). My ~/code directory is about 8GB. Thanks to git/hg/ignore, Ag only searched 700MB of that. There are also graphs of performance across releases. How is it so fast? Ag uses Pthreads to take advantage of multiple CPU cores and search files in parallel. Files are mmap()ed instead of read into a buffer. Literal string searching uses Boyer-Moore strstr. Regex searching uses PCREs JIT compiler (if Ag is built with PCRE >=8.21). Ag calls pcre_study() before executing the same regex on every file. Instead of calling fnmatch() on every pattern in your ignore files, non-regex patterns are loaded into arrays and binary searched. Ive written several blog posts showing how Ive improved performance. These include how I added pthreads, wrote my own scandir(), benchmarked every revision to find performance regressions, and profiled with gprof and Valgrind. Installing macOS brew install the_silver_searcher or port install the_silver_searcher Linux Ubuntu >= 13.10 (Saucy) or Debian >= 8 (Jessie) apt-get install silversearcher-ag Fedora 21 and lower yum install the_silver_searcher * Fedora 22+ dnf install the_silver_searcher * RHEL7+ yum install epel-release.noarch the_silver_searcher * Gentoo emerge -a sys-apps/the_silver_searcher * Arch pacman -S the_silver_searcher Slackware sbopkg -i the_silver_searcher openSUSE: zypper install the_silver_searcher CentOS: yum install the_silver_searcher SUSE Linux Enterprise: Follow these simple instructions. BSD FreeBSDpkg install the_silver_searcher OpenBSD/NetBSD pkg_add the_silver_searcher Windows Win32/64 Unofficial daily builds are available. Chocolateychoco install ag MSYS2 pacman -S mingw-w64-{i686,x86_64}-ag * Cygwin Run the relevant setup-*.exe, and select "the_silver_searcher" in the "Utils" category. Building from source Building master Install dependencies (Automake, pkg-config, PCRE, LZMA): macOS: brew install automake pkg-config pcre xz or port install automake pkgconfig pcre xz * Ubuntu/Debian: apt-get install -y automake pkg-config libpcre3-dev zlib1g-dev liblzma-dev * Fedora: yum -y install pkgconfig automake gcc zlib-devel pcre-devel xz-devel * CentOS: yum -y groupinstall "Development Tools" yum -y install pcre-devel xz-devel * openSUSE: zypper source-install --build-deps-only the_silver_searcher Windows: Its complicated. See this wiki page. Run the build script (which just runs aclocal, automake, etc): ./build.sh On Windows (inside an msys/MinGW shell): make -f Makefile.w32 Make install:sudo make install Building a release tarball GPG-signed releases are available here. Building release tarballs requires the same dependencies, except for automake and pkg-config. Once youve installed the dependencies, just run: ./configure make make install You may need to use sudo or run as root for the make install. Editor Integration Vim You can use Ag with ack.vim by adding the following line to your .vimrc: let g:ackprg = ag --nogroup --nocolor --column or: let g:ackprg = ag --vimgrep Which has the same effect but will report every match on the line. Emacs You can use ag.el as an Emacs front-end to Ag. See also: helm-ag. TextMate TextMate users can use Ag with my fork of the popular AckMate plugin, which lets you use both Ack and Ag for searching. If you already have AckMate you just want to replace Ack with Ag, move or delete "~/Library/Application Support/TextMate/PlugIns/AckMate.tmplugin/Contents/Resources/ackmate_ack" and run ln -s /usr/local/bin/ag "~/Library/Application Support/TextMate/PlugIns/AckMate.tmplugin/Contents/Resources/ackmate_ack" Other stuff you might like Ack - Better than grep. Without Ack, Ag would not exist. ack.vim Exuberant Ctags - Faster than Ag, but it builds an index beforehand. Good for really big codebases. Git-grep - As fast as Ag but only works on git repos. ripgrep Sack - A utility that wraps Ack and Ag. It removes a lot of repetition from searching and opening matching files.