Git Large File Storage | Linux | macOS | Windows | | :---- | :------ | :---- | | | | Git LFS is a command line extension and specification for managing large files with Git. The client is written in Go, with pre-compiled binaries available for Mac, Windows, Linux, and FreeBSD. Check out the website for an overview of features. Getting Started Installation You can install the Git LFS client in several different ways, depending on your setup and preferences. Linux users. Debian and RPM packages are available from PackageCloud. macOS users. Homebrew bottles are distributed, and can be installed via brew install git-lfs. Windows users. Chocolatey packages are distributed, and can be installed via choco install git-lfs. In addition, binary packages are available for Linux, macOS, Windows, and FreeBSD. This repository can also be built from source using the latest version of Go, and the available instructions in our Wiki. Usage Git LFS requires a global installation once per-machine. This can be done by running: bash $ git lfs install To begin using Git LFS within your Git repository, you can indicate which files you would like Git LFS to manage. This can be done by running the following from within Git repository: bash $ git lfs track "*.psd" (Where *.psd is the pattern of filenames that you wish to track. You can read more about this pattern syntax here). After any invocation of git-lfs-track(1) or git-lfs-untrack(1), you must commit changes to your .gitattributes file. This can be done by running: bash $ git add .gitattributes $ git commit -m "track *.psd files using Git LFS" You can now interact with your Git repository as usual, and Git LFS will take care of managing your large files. For example, changing a file named my.psd (tracked above via *.psd): bash $ git add my.psd $ git commit -m "add psd" Tip: if you have large files already in your repositorys history, git lfs track will not track them retroactively. To migrate existing large files in your history to use Git LFS, use git lfs migrate. For example: $ git lfs migrate import --include="*.psd" For more information, read git-lfs-migrate(1). You can confirm that Git LFS is managing your PSD file: bash $ git lfs ls-files 3c2f7aedfb * my.psd Once youve made your commits, push your files to the Git remote: ```bash $ git push origin master Uploading LFS objects: 100% (1/1), 810 B, 1.2 KB/s ... To https://github.com/git-lfs/git-lfs-test 67fcf6a..47b2002 master -> master ``` Note: Git LFS requires Git v1.8.5 or higher. Limitations Git LFS maintains a list of currently known limitations, which you can find and edit here. Need Help? You can get help on specific commands directly: bash $ git lfs help <subcommand> The official documentation has command references and specifications for the tool. You can always open an issue, and one of the Core Team members will respond to you. Please be sure to include: The output of git lfs env, which displays helpful information about your Git repository useful in debugging. Any failed commands re-run with GIT_TRACE=1 in the environment, which displays additional information pertaining to why a command crashed. Contributing See CONTRIBUTING.md for info on working on Git LFS and sending patches. Related projects are listed on the Implementations wiki page. Core Team These are the humans that form the Git LFS core team, which runs the project. In alphabetical order: | @larsxschneider | @ttaylorr | |---|---| | | | Alumni These are the humans that have in the past formed the Git LFS core team, or have otherwise contributed a significant amount to the project. Git LFS would not be possible without them. In alphabetical order: | @andyneff | @rubyist | @sinbad | @technoweenie | |---|---|---|---| | | | | |