GitBook GitBook is a command line tool (and Node.js library) for building beautiful books using GitHub/Git and Markdown (or AsciiDoc). Here is an example: Learn Javascript. You can publish and host books easily online using gitbook.com. A desktop editor is also available. Check out the GitBook Community Slack Channel, Stay updated by following @GitBookIO on Twitter or GitBook on Facebook. Complete documentation is available at toolchain.gitbook.com. Getting started GitBook can be used either on your computer for building local books or on legacy.gitbook.com for hosting them. To get started, check out the installation instructions in the documentation. Usage examples GitBook can be used to create book, public documentation, enterprise manual, thesis, research papers, etc. You can find a list of real-world examples in the documentation. Help and Support Were always happy to help out with your books or any other questions you might have. You can ask a question on the following contact form at gitbook.com/contact or signal an issue on GitHub. Features Write using Markdown or AsciiDoc Output as a website or ebook (pdf, epub, mobi) Multi-Languages Lexicon / Glossary Cover Variables and Templating Content References Plugins Beautiful default theme Publish your book The platform legacy.gitbook.com is like an "Heroku for books": you can create a book on it (public, or private) and update it using git push. Licensing GitBook is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See LICENSE for the full license text.