GitBucket GitBucket is a Git web platform powered by Scala offering: Easy installation Intuitive UI High extensibility by plugins API compatibility with GitHub You can try an online demo (ID: root / Pass: root) of GitBucket, and also get the latest information at GitBucket News. Features The current version of GitBucket provides many features such as: Public / Private Git repositories (with http/https and ssh access) GitLFS support Repository viewer including an online file editor Issues, Pull Requests and Wiki for repositories Activity timeline and email notifications Account and group management with LDAP integration a Plug-in system If you want to try the development version of GitBucket, see the Developers Guide. Installation GitBucket requires Java8. You have to install it, if it is not already installed. Download the latest gitbucket.war from the releases page and run it by java -jar gitbucket.war. Go to http://[hostname]:8080/ and log in with ID: root / Pass: root. You can specify following options: --port=[NUMBER] --prefix=[CONTEXTPATH] --host=[HOSTNAME] --gitbucket.home=[DATA_DIR] --temp_dir=[TEMP_DIR] --max_file_size=[MAX_FILE_SIZE] TEMP_DIR is used as the temporary directory for the jetty application context. This is the directory into which the gitbucket.war file is unpacked, the source files are compiled, etc. If given this parameter must match the path of an existing directory or the application will quit reporting an error; if not given the path used will be a tmp directory inside the gitbucket home. MAX_FILE_SIZE is the max file size for upload files. You can also deploy gitbucket.war to a servlet container which supports Servlet 3.0 (like Jetty, Tomcat, JBoss, etc) For more information about installation on Mac or Windows Server (with IIS), or configuration of Apache or Nginx and also integration with other tools or services such as Jenkins or Slack, see Wiki. To upgrade GitBucket, replace gitbucket.war with the new version, after stopping GitBucket. All GitBucket data is stored in HOME/.gitbucket by default. So if you want to back up GitBuckets data, copy this directory to the backup location. Plugins GitBucket has a plug-in system that allows extra functionality. Officially the following plug-ins are provided: gitbucket-gist-plugin gitbucket-emoji-plugin gitbucket-pages-plugin gitbucket-notifications-plugin You can find more plugins made by the community at GitBucket community plugins. Support If you have any questions about GitBucket, see Wiki and check issues whether there is a same question or request in the past. If you cant find same question and report, send it to gitter room before raising an issue. The highest priority of GitBucket is the ease of installation and API compatibility with GitHub, so your feature request might be rejected if they go against those principles. Whats New in 4.26.x 4.26.0 - 30 Jun 2018 Installing plugins from the central registry Repositories tab in the dashboard Fork dialog enhancement Adjust pull request creation suggestor Keep showing incompleted task list New notification hooks See the change log for all of the updates.