A collection of .gitignore templates This is GitHubs collection of .gitignore file templates. We use this list to populate the .gitignore template choosers available in the GitHub.com interface when creating new repositories and files. For more information about how .gitignore files work, and how to use them, the following resources are a great place to start: The Ignoring Files chapter of the Pro Git book. The Ignoring Files article on the GitHub Help site. The gitignore(5) manual page. Folder structure The files in the root directory are for .gitignore templates that are project specific, such as language or framework specific templates. Global (operating system or editor specific) templates should go into the Global/ directory. Contributing guidelines Wed love for you to help us improve this project. To help us keep this collection high quality, we request that contributions adhere to the following guidelines. Provide a link to the application or projects homepage. Unless its extremely popular, theres a chance the maintainers dont know about or use the language, framework, editor, app, or project your change applies to. Provide links to documentation supporting the change youre making. Current, canonical documentation mentioning the files being ignored is best. If documentation isnt available to support your change, do the best you can to explain what the files being ignored are for. Explain why youre making a change. Even if it seems self-evident, please take a sentence or two to tell us why your change or addition should happen. Its especially helpful to articulate why this change applies to everyone who works with the applicable technology, rather than just you or your team. Please consider the scope of your change. If your change is specific to a certain language or framework, then make sure the change is made to the template for that language or framework, rather than to the template for an editor, tool, or operating system. Please only modify one template per pull request. This helps keep pull requests and feedback focused on a specific project or technology. In general, the more you can do to help us understand the change youre making, the more likely well be to accept your contribution quickly. If a template is mostly a list of files installed by a particular version of some software (e.g. a PHP framework) then its brittle and probably no more helpful than a simple ls. If its not possible to curate a small set of useful rules, then the template might not be a good fit for this collection. Please also understand that we cant list every tool that ever existed. Our aim is to curate a collection of the most common and helpful templates, not to make sure we cover every project possible. If we choose not to include your language, tool, or project, its not because its not awesome. Contributing workflow Heres how we suggest you go about proposing a change to this project: Fork this project to your account. Create a branch for the change you intend to make. Make your changes to your fork. Send a pull request from your forks branch to our master branch. Using the web-based interface to make changes is fine too, and will help you by automatically forking the project and prompting to send a pull request too. License CC0-1.0.