简体中文 Gitea - Git with a cup of tea Purpose The goal of this project is to make the easiest, fastest, and most painless way of setting up a self-hosted Git service. Using Go, this can be done with an independent binary distribution across all platforms which Go supports, including Linux, macOS, and Windows on x86, amd64, ARM and PowerPC architectures. Want to try it before doing anything else? Do it with the online demo! This project has been forked from Gogs since 2016.11 but changed a lot. Building From the root of the source tree, run: make generate all More info: https://docs.gitea.io/en-us/install-from-source/ Using ./gitea web NOTE: If youre interested in using our APIs, we have experimental support with documentation. Contributing Expected workflow is: Fork -> Patch -> Push -> Pull Request NOTES: YOU MUST READ THE CONTRIBUTORS GUIDE BEFORE STARTING TO WORK ON A PULL REQUEST. If you have found a vulnerability in the project, please write privately to security@gitea.io. Thanks! Further information For more information and instructions about how to install Gitea, please look at our documentation. If you have questions that are not covered by the documentation, you can get in contact with us on our Discord server, or forum! Authors Maintainers Contributors Translators Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [Become a backer] Sponsors Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [Become a sponsor] FAQ How do you pronounce Gitea? Gitea is pronounced /ɡɪti:/ as in "gi-tea" with a hard g. Why is this not hosted on a Gitea instance? Were working on it. License This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for the full license text. Screenshots Looking for an overview of the interface? Check it out! | | | | |:---:|:---:|:---:| |||| |||| |||| ||||