Go kit Go kit is a programming toolkit for building microservices (or elegant monoliths) in Go. We solve common problems in distributed systems and application architecture so you can focus on delivering business value. Website: gokit.io Mailing list: go-kit Slack: gophers.slack.com #go-kit (invite) Motivation Go has emerged as the language of the server, but it remains underrepresented in so-called "modern enterprise" companies like Facebook, Twitter, Netflix, and SoundCloud. Many of these organizations have turned to JVM-based stacks for their business logic, owing in large part to libraries and ecosystems that directly support their microservice architectures. To reach its next level of success, Go needs more than simple primitives and idioms. It needs a comprehensive toolkit, for coherent distributed programming in the large. Go kit is a set of packages and best practices, which provide a comprehensive, robust, and trustable way of building microservices for organizations of any size. For more details, see the website, the motivating blog post and the video of the talk. See also the Go kit talk at GopherCon 2015. Goals Operate in a heterogeneous SOA — expect to interact with mostly non-Go-kit services RPC as the primary messaging pattern Pluggable serialization and transport — not just JSON over HTTP Operate within existing infrastructures — no mandates for specific tools or technologies Non-goals Supporting messaging patterns other than RPC (for now) — e.g. MPI, pub/sub, CQRS, etc. Re-implementing functionality that can be provided by adapting existing software Having opinions on operational concerns: deployment, configuration, process supervision, orchestration, etc. Contributing Please see CONTRIBUTING.md. Thank you, contributors! Dependency management Go kit is a library, designed to be imported into a binary package. Vendoring is currently the best way for binary package authors to ensure reliable, reproducible builds. Therefore, we strongly recommend our users use vendoring for all of their dependencies, including Go kit. To avoid compatibility and availability issues, Go kit doesnt vendor its own dependencies, and doesnt recommend use of third-party import proxies. There are several tools which make vendoring easier, including dep, gb, glide, gvt, and govendor. In addition, Go kit uses a variety of continuous integration providers to find and fix compatibility problems as soon as they occur. Related projects Projects with a ★ have had particular influence on Go kits design (or vice-versa). Service frameworks gizmo, a microservice toolkit from The New York Times ★ go-micro, a microservices client/server library ★ gotalk, async peer communication protocol & library Kite, a micro-service framework gocircuit, dynamic cloud orchestration Individual components afex/hystrix-go, client-side latency and fault tolerance library armon/go-metrics, library for exporting performance and runtime metrics to external metrics systems codahale/lunk, structured logging in the style of Googles Dapper or Twitters Zipkin eapache/go-resiliency, resiliency patterns sasbury/logging, a tagged style of logging grpc/grpc-go, HTTP/2 based RPC inconshreveable/log15, simple, powerful logging for Go ★ mailgun/vulcand, programmatic load balancer backed by etcd mattheath/phosphor, distributed system tracing pivotal-golang/lager, an opinionated logging library rubyist/circuitbreaker, circuit breaker library sirupsen/logrus, structured, pluggable logging for Go ★ sourcegraph/appdash, application tracing system based on Googles Dapper spacemonkeygo/monitor, data collection, monitoring, instrumentation, and Zipkin client library streadway/handy, net/http handler filters vitess/rpcplus, package rpc + context.Context gdamore/mangos, nanomsg implementation in pure Go Web frameworks Gorilla Gin Negroni Goji Martini Beego Revel (considered harmful) Additional reading Architecting for the Cloud — Netflix Dapper, a Large-Scale Distributed Systems Tracing Infrastructure — Google Your Server as a Function (PDF) — Twitter Development supported by DigitalOcean.