Gogs Current tip version: .VERSION (see Releases for binary versions) | Web | UI | Preview | |:-------------:|:-------:|:-------:| |||| |||| |||| Important Notes YOU MUST READ Contributing Code BEFORE STARTING TO WORK ON A PULL REQUEST. Due to testing purpose, data of try.gogs.io was reset in Jan 28, 2015 and will reset multiple times after. Please do NOT put your important data on the site. The demo site try.gogs.io is running under develop branch. If you think there are vulnerabilities in the project, please talk privately to u@gogs.io, and the name you want to be credited as. Thanks! If youre interested in using APIs, we have experimental support with documentation. If your team/company is using Gogs and would like to put your logo on our website, contact us by any means. 简体中文 Purpose The goal of this project is to make the easiest, fastest, and most painless way of setting up a self-hosted Git service. With Go, this can be done with an independent binary distribution across ALL platforms that Go supports, including Linux, macOS, Windows and ARM. Overview Please see the Documentation for common usages and change log. Want to try it before doing anything else? Do it online! Having trouble? Get help with Troubleshooting or User Forum. Want to help with localization? Check out the guide! Features Activity timeline SSH and HTTP/HTTPS protocols SMTP/LDAP/Reverse proxy authentication Reverse proxy with sub-path Account/Organization/Repository management Add/Remove repository collaborators Repository/Organization webhooks (including Slack and Discord) Repository Git hooks/deploy keys Repository issues, pull requests, wiki and protected branches Migrate and mirror repository and its wiki Web editor for repository files and wiki Jupyter Notebook Two-factor authentication Gravatar and Federated avatar with custom source Mail service Administration panel Supports MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite3, MSSQL and TiDB (via MySQL protocol) Multi-language support (29 languages) Hardware Requirements A Raspberry Pi or $5 Digital Ocean Droplet is more than enough to get you started. Some even use 64MB RAM Docker CaaS. 2 CPU cores and 512MB RAM would be the baseline for teamwork. Increase CPU cores when your team size gets significantly larger, memory footprint remains low. Browser Support Please see Semantic UI for specific versions of supported browsers. The smallest resolution officially supported is 1024*768, however the UI may still look right in smaller resolutions, but no promises or fixes. Installation Make sure you install the prerequisites first. There are 5 ways to install Gogs: Install from binary Install from source Install from packages Ship with Docker Install with Vagrant Tutorials How To Set Up Gogs on Ubuntu 14.04 Run your own GitHub-like service with the help of Docker Dockerized Gogs git server and alpine postgres in 20 minutes or less Host Your Own Private GitHub with Gogs 使用 Gogs 搭建自己的 Git 服务器 (Chinese) 阿里云上 Ubuntu 14.04 64 位安装 Gogs (Chinese) Installing Gogs on FreeBSD Gogs on Raspberry Pi Cloudflare Full SSL with Gogs using NGINX Screencasts How to install Gogs on a Linux Server (DigitalOcean) Instalando Gogs no Ubuntu (Português) Deploy to Cloud OpenShift Cloudron Scaleway Sandstorm sloppy.io YunoHost DPlatform Software and Service Support Drone (CI) Jenkins (CI) Fabric8 (DevOps) Taiga (Project Management) Puppet (IT) Kanboard (Project Management) BearyChat (Team Communication) HiWork (Team Communication) GitPitch (Markdown Presentations) Product Support Synology (Docker) One Space (App Store) Acknowledgments Thanks Egon Elbre for designing logo. Thanks Crowdin for sponsoring open source translation plan. Thanks DigitalOcean for sponsoring VPS service. Thanks KeyCDN for sponsoring CDN service. Contributors See contributors page for top 100 contributors. See TRANSLATORS for public list of translators. License This project is under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for the full license text.