A Fast and Flexible Static Site Generator built with love by bep, spf13 and friends in Go. Website | Forum | Developer Chat (no support) | Documentation | Installation Guide | Contribution Guide | Twitter Overview Hugo is a static HTML and CSS website generator written in Go. It is optimized for speed, ease of use, and configurability. Hugo takes a directory with content and templates and renders them into a full HTML website. Hugo relies on Markdown files with front matter for metadata, and you can run Hugo from any directory. This works well for shared hosts and other systems where you dont have a privileged account. Hugo renders a typical website of moderate size in a fraction of a second. A good rule of thumb is that each piece of content renders in around 1 millisecond. Hugo is designed to work well for any kind of website including blogs, tumbles, and docs. Supported Architectures Currently, we provide pre-built Hugo binaries for Windows, Linux, FreeBSD, NetBSD, macOS (Darwin), and Android for x64, i386 and ARM architectures. Hugo may also be compiled from source wherever the Go compiler tool chain can run, e.g. for other operating systems including DragonFly BSD, OpenBSD, Plan 9, and Solaris. Complete documentation is available at Hugo Documentation. Choose How to Install If you want to use Hugo as your site generator, simply install the Hugo binaries. The Hugo binaries have no external dependencies. To contribute to the Hugo source code or documentation, you should fork the Hugo GitHub project and clone it to your local machine. Finally, you can install the Hugo source code with go, build the binaries yourself, and run Hugo that way. Building the binaries is an easy task for an experienced go getter. Install Hugo as Your Site Generator (Binary Install) Use the installation instructions in the Hugo documentation. Build and Install the Binaries from Source (Advanced Install) Prerequisite Tools Git Go (latest or previous version) Vendored Dependencies Hugo uses dep to vendor dependencies, but we dont commit the vendored packages themselves to the Hugo git repository. Therefore, a simple go get is not supported because the command is not vendor aware. The simplest way is to use mage (a Make alternative for Go projects.) Fetch from GitHub bash go get github.com/magefile/mage go get -d github.com/gohugoio/hugo cd ${GOPATH:-$HOME/go}/src/github.com/gohugoio/hugo mage vendor mage install If you are a Windows user, substitute the $HOME environment variable above with %USERPROFILE%. The Hugo Documentation The Hugo documentation now lives in its own repository, see https://github.com/gohugoio/hugoDocs. But we do keep a version of that documentation as a git subtree in this repository. To build the sub folder /docs as a Hugo site, you need to clone this repo: bash git clone git@github.com:gohugoio/hugo.git Contributing to Hugo For a complete guide to contributing to Hugo, see the Contribution Guide. We welcome contributions to Hugo of any kind including documentation, themes, organization, tutorials, blog posts, bug reports, issues, feature requests, feature implementations, pull requests, answering questions on the forum, helping to manage issues, etc. The Hugo community and maintainers are very active and helpful, and the project benefits greatly from this activity. Asking Support Questions We have an active discussion forum where users and developers can ask questions. Please dont use the GitHub issue tracker to ask questions. Reporting Issues If you believe you have found a defect in Hugo or its documentation, use the GitHub issue tracker to report the problem to the Hugo maintainers. If youre not sure if its a bug or not, start by asking in the discussion forum. When reporting the issue, please provide the version of Hugo in use (hugo version). Submitting Patches The Hugo project welcomes all contributors and contributions regardless of skill or experience level. If you are interested in helping with the project, we will help you with your contribution. Hugo is a very active project with many contributions happening daily. Because we want to create the best possible product for our users and the best contribution experience for our developers, we have a set of guidelines which ensure that all contributions are acceptable. The guidelines are not intended as a filter or barrier to participation. If you are unfamiliar with the contribution process, the Hugo team will help you and teach you how to bring your contribution in accordance with the guidelines. For a complete guide to contributing code to Hugo, see the Contribution Guide.