Dep dep is a prototype dependency management tool for Go. It requires Go 1.9 or newer to compile. dep is safe for production use. dep is the official experiment, but not yet the official tool. Check out the Roadmap for more on what this means! For guides and reference materials about dep, see the documentation. Installation It is strongly recommended that you use a released version. Release binaries are available on the releases page. On MacOS you can install or upgrade to the latest released version with Homebrew: sh $ brew install dep $ brew upgrade dep On other platforms you can use the install.sh script: sh $ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/golang/dep/master/install.sh | sh It will install into your $GOPATH/bin directory by default or any other directory you specify using the INSTALL_DIRECTORY environment variable. If your platform is not supported, youll need to build it manually or let the team know and well consider adding your platform to the release builds. If youre interested in hacking on dep, you can install via go get: sh go get -u github.com/golang/dep/cmd/dep Feedback Feedback is greatly appreciated. At this stage, the maintainers are most interested in feedback centered on the user experience (UX) of the tool. Do you have workflows that the tool supports well, or doesnt support at all? Do any of the commands have surprising effects, output, or results? Let us know by filing an issue, describing what you did or wanted to do, what you expected to happen, and what actually happened. Contributing Contributions are greatly appreciated. The maintainers actively manage the issues list, and try to highlight issues suitable for newcomers. The project follows the typical GitHub pull request model. See CONTRIBUTING.md for more details. Before starting any work, please either comment on an existing issue, or file a new one.