FlexboxLayout FlexboxLayout is a library project which brings the similar capabilities of CSS Flexible Box Layout Module to Android. Installation Add the following dependency to your build.gradle file: dependencies { implementation com.google.android:flexbox:1.0.0 } Usage There are two ways of using Flexbox in your layout. FlexboxLayout The first one is FlexboxLayout that extends the ViewGroup like LinearLayout and RelativeLayout. You can specify the attributes from a layout XML like: ```xml <TextView android:id="@+id/textview1" android:layout_width="120dp" android:layout_height="80dp" app:layout_flexBasisPercent="50%" /> <TextView android:id="@+id/textview2" android:layout_width="80dp" android:layout_height="80dp" app:layout_alignSelf="center" /> <TextView android:id="@+id/textview3" android:layout_width="160dp" android:layout_height="80dp" app:layout_alignSelf="flex_end" /> ``` Or from code like: ```java FlexboxLayout flexboxLayout = (FlexboxLayout) findViewById(R.id.flexbox_layout); flexboxLayout.setFlexDirection(FlexDirection.ROW); View view = flexboxLayout.getChildAt(0); FlexboxLayout.LayoutParams lp = (FlexboxLayout.LayoutParams) view.getLayoutParams(); lp.order = -1; lp.flexGrow = 2; view.setLayoutParams(lp); ``` FlexboxLayoutManager (within RecyclerView) The second one is FlexboxLayoutManager that can be used within RecyclerView. java RecyclerView recyclerView = (RecyclerView) context.findViewById(R.id.recyclerview); FlexboxLayoutManager layoutManager = new FlexboxLayoutManager(context); layoutManager.setFlexDirection(FlexDirection.COLUMN); layoutManager.setJustifyContent(JustifyContent.FLEX_END); recyclerView.setLayoutManager(layoutManager); or for the attributes for the children of the FlexboxLayoutManager you can do like: java mImageView.setImageDrawable(drawable); ViewGroup.LayoutParams lp = mImageView.getLayoutParams(); if (lp instanceof FlexboxLayoutManager.LayoutParams) { FlexboxLayoutManager.LayoutParams flexboxLp = (FlexboxLayoutManager.LayoutParams) lp; flexboxLp.setFlexGrow(1.0f); flexboxLp.setAlignSelf(AlignSelf.FLEX_END); } The advantage of using FlexboxLayoutManager is that it recycles the views that go off the screen for reuse for the views that are appearing as the user scrolls instead of inflating every individual view, which consumes much less memory especially when the number of items contained in the Flexbox container is large. Supported attributes/features comparison Due to some characteristics of RecyclerView, some Flexbox attributes are not available/not implemented to the FlexboxLayoutManager. Here is a quick overview of the attributes/features comparison between the two implementations. |Attribute / Feature|FlexboxLayout| FlexboxLayoutManager (RecyclerView)| | ------- |:-----------:|:----------------------------------:| |flexDirection||| |flexWrap|| (except wrap_reverse)| |justifyContent||| |alignItems||| |alignContent|| - | |layout_order|| - | |layout_flexGrow||| |layout_flexShrink||| |layout_alignSelf||| |layout_flexBasisPercent||| |layout_(min/max)Width||| |layout_(min/max)Height||| |layout_wrapBefore||| |Divider||| |View recycling| - || |Scrolling| *1 || *1 Partially possible by wrapping it with ScrollView. But it isnt likely to work with a large set of views inside the layout. Because it doesnt consider view recycling. Supported attributes Attributes for the FlexboxLayout: flexDirection This attribute determines the direction of the main axis (and the cross axis, perpendicular to the main axis). The direction children items are placed inside the Flexbox layout. Possible values are: row (default) row_reverse column column_reverse flexWrap This attribute controls whether the flex container is single-line or multi-line, and the direction of the cross axis. Possible values are: nowrap (default) wrap wrap_reverse justifyContent This attribute controls the alignment along the main axis. Possible values are: flex_start (default) flex_end center space_between space_around alignItems This attribute controls the alignment along the cross axis. Possible values are: stretch (default) flex_start flex_end center baseline alignContent This attribute controls the alignment of the flex lines in the flex container. Possible values are: stretch (default) flex_start flex_end center space_between space_around showDividerHorizontal (one or more of none | beginning | middle | end) dividerDrawableHorizontal (reference to a drawable) Puts horizontal dividers between flex lines (or flex items when flexDirection is set to column or column_rebase). showDividerVertical (one or more of none | beginning | middle | end) dividerDrawableVertical (reference to a drawable) Puts vertical dividers between flex items (or flex lines when flexDirection is set to column or column_rebase). showDivider (one or more of none | beginning | middle | end) dividerDrawable (reference to a drawable) Shorthand for setting both horizontal and vertical dividers. Note that if used with other attributes (such as justifyContent="space_around" or alignContent="space_between" ... etc) for putting spaces between flex lines or flex items, you may see unexpected spaces. Please avoid using these at the same time. Example of putting both vertical and horizontal dividers. res/drawable/divider.xml xml <shape xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"> <size android:width="8dp" android:height="12dp" /> <solid android:color="#44A444" /> </shape> res/layout/content_main.xml ```xml <TextView style="@style/FlexItem" android:layout_width="220dp" android:layout_height="80dp" android:text="1" /> <TextView style="@style/FlexItem" android:layout_width="120dp" android:layout_height="80dp" android:text="2" /> <TextView style="@style/FlexItem" android:layout_width="160dp" android:layout_height="80dp" android:text="3" /> <TextView style="@style/FlexItem" android:layout_width="80dp" android:layout_height="80dp" android:text="4" /> <TextView style="@style/FlexItem" android:layout_width="100dp" android:layout_height="80dp" android:text="5" /> ``` Attributes for the children of a FlexboxLayout layout_order (integer) This attribute can change how the ordering of the children views are laid out. By default, children are displayed and laid out in the same order as they appear in the layout XML. If not specified, 1 is set as a default value. layout_flexGrow (float) This attribute determines how much this child will grow if positive free space is distributed relative to the rest of other flex items included in the same flex line. If a flex item has a positive layout_flexGrow value, the item will take up the remaining space in the flex line. If multiple flex items in the same flex line have positive layout_flexGrow values, the remaining free space is distributed depending on the proportion of their declared layout_flexGrow value. (Similar to the layout_weight attribute in the LinearLayout) If not specified, 0 is set as a default value. layout_flexShrink (float) This attribute determines how much this child will shrink if negative free space is distributed relative to the rest of other flex items included in the same flex line. If not specified, 1 is set as a default value. layout_alignSelf This attribute determines the alignment along the cross axis (perpendicular to the main axis). The alignment in the same direction can be determined by the alignItems in the parent, but if this is set to other than auto, the cross axis alignment is overridden for this child. Possible values are: auto (default) flex_start flex_end center baseline stretch layout_flexBasisPercent (fraction) The initial flex item length in a fraction format relative to its parent. The initial main size of this child view is trying to be expanded as the specified fraction against the parent main size. If this value is set, the length specified from layout_width (or layout_height) is overridden by the calculated value from this attribute. This attribute is only effective when the parents length is definite (MeasureSpec mode is MeasureSpec.EXACTLY). The default value is -1, which means not set. layout_minWidth / layout_minHeight (dimension) These attributes impose minimum size constraints for the children of FlexboxLayout. A child view wont shrink less than the value of these attributes (varies based on the flexDirection attribute as to which attribute imposes the size constraint along the main axis) regardless of the layout_flexShrink attribute. layout_maxWidth / layout_maxHeight (dimension) These attributes impose maximum size constraints for the children of FlexboxLayout. A child view wont be expanded more than the value of these attributes (varies based on the flexDirection attribute as to which attribute imposes the size constraint along the main axis) regardless of the layout_flexGrow attribute. layout_wrapBefore (boolean) This attribute forces a flex line wrapping, the default value is false. i.e. if this is set to true for a flex item, the item will become the first item of a flex line. (A wrapping happens regardless of the flex items being processed in the previous flex line) This attribute is ignored if the flex_wrap attribute is set to nowrap. The equivalent attribute isnt defined in the original CSS Flexible Box Module specification, but having this attribute is useful for Android developers. For example, to flatten the layouts when building a grid-like layout or for a situation where developers want to put a new flex line to make a semantic difference from the previous one, etc. Others Known differences from the original CSS specification This library tries to achieve the same capabilities of the original Flexible Box specification as much as possible, but due to some reasons such as the way specifying attributes cant be the same between CSS and Android XML, there are some known differences from the original specification. (1) There is no flex-flow equivalent attribute * Because flex-flow is a shorthand for setting the flex-direction and flex-wrap properties, specifying two attributes from a single attribute is not practical in Android. (2) There is no flex equivalent attribute * Likewise flex is a shorthand for setting the flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis, specifying those attributes from a single attribute is not practical. (3) layout_flexBasisPercent is introduced instead of flexBasis * Both layout_flexBasisPercent in this library and flex-basis property in the CSS are used to determine the initial length of an individual flex item. The flex-basis property accepts width values such as 1em, 10px, and content as strings as well as percentage values such as 10% and 30%. layout_flexBasisPercent only accepts percentage values. However, specifying initial fixed width values can be done by specifying width (or height) values in layout_width (or layout_height, varies depending on the flexDirection). Also, the same effect can be done by specifying "wrap_content" in layout_width (or layout_height) if developers want to achieve the same effect as content. Thus, layout_flexBasisPercent only accepts percentage values, which cant be done through layout_width (or layout_height) for simplicity. (4) layout_wrapBefore is introduced. * The equivalent attribute doesnt exist in the CSS Flexible Box Module specification, but as explained above, Android developers will benefit by having this attribute for having more control over when a wrapping happens. Xamarin Binding Xamarin binding is now available on NuGet thanks to @btripp Demo apps Flexbox Playground demo app The demo-playground module works as a playground demo app for trying various values for the supported attributes. You can install it by ./gradlew demo-playground:installDebug Cat gallery demo app The demo-cat-gallery module showcases the usage of the FlexboxLayoutManager inside the RecyclerView that handles various sizes of views aligned nicely regardless of the device width like the Google Photo app without loading all the images on the memory. Thus compared to using the {@link FlexboxLayout}, its much less likely to abuse the memory, which sometimes leads to the OutOfMemoryError. ./gradlew demo-cat-gallery:installDebug How to make contributions Please read and follow the steps in CONTRIBUTING.md License Please see LICENSE