Android Architecture Components samples A collection of samples using the Architecture Components: Room Lifecycle-aware components ViewModels LiveData Paging (preview) WorkManager (alpha) Samples BasicSample - Shows how to persist data using a SQLite database and Room. Also uses ViewModels and LiveData. PersistenceContentProviderSample - Shows how to expose data via a Content Provider using Room. GithubBrowserSample - An advanced sample that uses the Architecture components, Dagger and the Github API. Requires Android Studio 3.0 or later. BasicRxJavaSample - Shows how to use Room with RxJava 2. Also uses ViewModels. PersistenceMigrationsSample - Shows how to implement migrations in Room. BasicRxJavaKotlinSample - Shows how to use ViewModels and Room together with RxJava, in Kotlin. PagingSample - Shows how to use the Paging library (preview) with Room, in Kotlin. PagingNetworkSample - Shows how to use the Paging library (preview) with a backend API via Retrofit, in Kotlin. WorkManagerSample - Shows how to use WorkManager (alpha) to do background work, in Java. Other Architecture Components Samples Architecture Blueprints - todo-mvvm-live - Variant of the to-do app that uses ViewModels, LiveData and Data Binding with an MVVM architecture. Architecture Blueprints - todo-mvp - Variant of the to-do app that uses Room as a local data source with an MVP architecture. Reporting Issues You can report an Issue on the samples using this repository. If you find an issue with the Architecture Components, report it using the Architecture Components Issue Tracker License Copyright 2018 The Android Open Source Project, Inc. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more contributor license agreements. See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership. The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.