Web Fundamentals on DevSite Welcome to the new WebFundamentals! An effort to showcase best practices and tools for modern Web Development. Whats changed? Were now using the DevSite infrastructure New style guide New widgets allow inline JavaScript, common links, related guide and more Jekyll has been eliminated. Instead, pages are rendered at request time Front-matter has been eliminated from the markdown, but files now require a simple set of tags What stays the same? GitHub is still our source of truth for content, We want your contributions, either PRs, issues, whatever! The latest is staged at https://web-central.appspot.com/web/ Cloning the repo If you have a high-bandwidth connection, I recommend starting with a fresh clone of the repo. git clone https://github.com/google/WebFundamentals.git Getting set up The new DevSite infrastructure simplifies the dependencies a lot. Ensure you have a recent version of Node and the AppEngine SDK for Python already installed. Run npm install (needed for the build process) Build the auto-generated files Some files (contributors includes, some pages for updates, showcases, etc.) are automatically generated. The first time you clone the repo and run npm install, this is done for you. However, when you add a case study, update, etc., youll need to re-build those files using: npm run build Start Local Server To view the site locally, just run: npm start Update the code labs To update the Code Labs, youll need the claat tool and access to the original Doc files. This will likely only work for Googlers. Download the claat tool and place it in your tools directory. Run tools/update-codelabs.sh Check the latest changes into GitHub Start the development server Run npm start Test your changes before submitting a PR Please run your changes through npm test before submitting a PR. The test looks for things that may cause issues with DevSite and tries to keep our content consistent. Its part of the deployment process, so PRs will fail if there are any errors! To run: npm test