Python Fire Python Fire is a library for automatically generating command line interfaces (CLIs) from absolutely any Python object. Python Fire is a simple way to create a CLI in Python. [1] Python Fire is a helpful tool for developing and debugging Python code. [2] Python Fire helps with exploring existing code or turning other peoples code into a CLI. [3] Python Fire makes transitioning between Bash and Python easier. [4] Python Fire makes using a Python REPL easier by setting up the REPL with the modules and variables youll need already imported and created. [5] Installation To install Python Fire with pip, run: pip install fire To install Python Fire with conda, run: conda install fire -c conda-forge To install Python Fire from source, first clone the repository and then run: python setup.py install Basic Usage You can call Fire on any Python object: functions, classes, modules, objects, dictionaries, lists, tuples, etc. They all work! Heres an example of calling Fire on a class. ```python import fire class Calculator(object): """A simple calculator class.""" def double(self, number): return 2 * number if name == main: fire.Fire(Calculator) ``` Then, from the command line, you can run: bash python calculator.py double 10 # 20 python calculator.py double --number=15 # 30 To learn how Fire behaves on functions, objects, dicts, lists, etc, and to learn about Fires other features, see the Using a Fire CLI page. For additional examples, see The Python Fire Guide. Why is it called Fire? When you call Fire, it fires off (executes) your command. Where can I learn more? Please see The Python Fire Guide. Reference | Setup | Command | Notes | :------ | :------------------ | :--------- | install | pip install fire | | Creating a CLI | Command | Notes | :--------------| :--------------------- | :--------- | import | import fire | | Call | fire.Fire() | Turns the current module into a Fire CLI. | Call | fire.Fire(component) | Turns component into a Fire CLI. | Using a CLI | Command | Notes | :------------- | :------------------------- | :--------- | Help | command -- --help | | REPL | command -- --interactive | Enters interactive mode. | Separator | command -- --separator=X | This sets the separator to X. The default separator is -. | Completion | command -- --completion [shell] | Generate a completion script for the CLI. | Trace | command -- --trace | Gets a Fire trace for the command. | Verbose | command -- --verbose | Note that flags are separated from the Fire command by an isolated -- arg. Disclaimer This is not an official Google product.