Introduction Brotli is a generic-purpose lossless compression algorithm that compresses data using a combination of a modern variant of the LZ77 algorithm, Huffman coding and 2nd order context modeling, with a compression ratio comparable to the best currently available general-purpose compression methods. It is similar in speed with deflate but offers more dense compression. The specification of the Brotli Compressed Data Format is defined in RFC 7932. Brotli is open-sourced under the MIT License, see the LICENSE file. Brotli mailing list: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/brotli Build instructions Autotools-style CMake configure-cmake is an autotools-style configure script for CMake-based projects (not supported on Windows). The basic commands to build, test and install brotli are: $ mkdir out && cd out $ ../configure-cmake $ make $ make test $ make install By default, debug binaries are built. To generate "release" Makefile specify --disable-debug option to configure-cmake. Bazel See Bazel CMake The basic commands to build and install brotli are: $ mkdir out && cd out $ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=./installed .. $ cmake --build . --config Release --target install You can use other CMake configuration. Premake5 See Premake5 Python To install the latest release of the Python module, run the following: $ pip install brotli To install the tip-of-the-tree version, run: $ pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/google/brotli See the Python readme for more details on installing from source, development, and testing. Benchmarks Squash Compression Benchmark / Unstable Squash Compression Benchmark Large Text Compression Benchmark Lzturbo Benchmark Related projects Disclaimer: Brotli authors take no responsibility for the third party projects mentioned in this section. Independent decoder implementation by Mark Adler, based entirely on format specification. JavaScript port of brotli decoder. Could be used directly via npm install brotli Hand ported decoder / encoder in haxe by Dominik Homberger. Output source code: JavaScript, PHP, Python, Java and C# 7Zip plugin Dart native bindings