GSAP (GreenSock Animation Platform) Ultra high-performance, professional-grade animation for the modern web GSAP is a JavaScript library for creating high-performance animations that work in every major browser. No other library delivers such advanced sequencing, reliability, API efficiency, and tight control while solving real-world problems on over 4 million sites. GSAP works around countless browser inconsistencies; your animations just work. CSS properties, SVG, canvas libraries, custom properties of generic objects, colors, strings...animate anything! At its core, GSAP is a high-speed property manipulator, updating values over time with extreme accuracy. Its up to 20x faster than jQuery! See the "Why GSAP?" article for what makes GSAP so special. Full documentation What is GSAP? (video) Getting started video Unlike monolithic frameworks that dictate how you structure your apps, GSAP is completely flexible; sprinkle it wherever you want. React, Vue, Angular or vanilla JS - doesnt matter. Simply put, GSAP is the most robust high-performance animation library on the planet, which is probably why every major ad network excludes it from file size calculations. Zero dependencies. This is the public repository for GreenSocks JavaScript tools like GSAP and Draggable. "GSAP" describes all of the animation-related tools which include TweenLite, TweenMax, TimelineLite, TimelineMax, various plugins, extra easing functions, etc. CDN TweenMax is most popular because it has all the essential tools plus several common plugins, all in one file: html <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/gsap/2.0.1/TweenMax.min.js"></script> Click the green "Download GSAP" button at greensock.com for more options. Click "customize" at the bottom of the resulting window to see all the extra plugins and tool URLs. Draggable, for example, is at: html <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/gsap/2.0.1/utils/Draggable.min.js"></script> Most ad networks have GSAP on their CDNs as well, so contact them for the appropriate URL(s). NPM See the full guide to using GSAP via NPM. javascript npm install gsap The default (main) file is TweenMax which includes TweenLite, TimelineLite, TimelineMax, all of the eases (except CustomEase/CustomWiggle/CustomBounce) and the following plugins: css, roundProps, bezier, attr, and directionalRotation. ```javascript //typical import import {TweenMax, Power2, TimelineLite} from "gsap/TweenMax"; //or get to the parts that arent included inside TweenMax: import Draggable from "gsap/Draggable"; import ScrollToPlugin from "gsap/ScrollToPlugin"; //or, as of 2.0.0, all tools are exported from the "all" file (excluding bonus plugins): import {TweenMax, CSSPlugin, ScrollToPlugin, Draggable, Elastic} from "gsap/all"; //if tree shaking dumps plugins, just reference them somewhere in your code like: const plugins = [CSSPlugin, ScrollToPlugin]; ``` As of version 2.0.0, the NPM files are ES modules, though theres also a /umd/ directory with UMD files for extra compatibility. For Club GreenSock-only plugins, download them from your GreenSock.com account and then treat them as part of your own JS payload or drop them into your node_modules/gsap folder. Post other questions in our forums and wed be happy to help. Resources GSAP home page Getting started guide Full documentation Community forums NPM & Webpack usage guide Examples & showcases Why GSAP? (a practical guide for developers) Draggable demo Animating SVG with GSAP Club GreenSock (get access to bonus plugins and tools not in this repository) css-tricks article: Myth Busting: CSS Animations vs. JavaScript css-tricks article about writing smarter animation code Get CustomEase for free Sign up for a free GreenSock account to gain access to CustomEase which lets you create literally any ease imaginable (unlimited control points). Its in the download zip at GreenSock.com (when youre logged in). What is Club GreenSock? (video) Sign up anytime. Advanced playback controls & debugging GSDevTools adds a visual UI for controlling your GSAP animations which can significantly boost your workflow and productivity. (Club GreenSock membership required, not included in this repository). Try all bonus plugins for free on Codepen https://codepen.io/GreenSock/full/OPqpRJ/ Need help? GreenSock forums are an excellent resource for learning and getting your questions answered. Report any bugs there too please (its also okay to file an issue on Github if you prefer). License GreenSocks standard "no charge" license can be viewed at http://greensock.com/standard-license. Club GreenSock members are granted additional rights. See http://greensock.com/licensing/ for details. Why doesnt GreenSock use an MIT (or similar) open source license, and why is that a good thing? This article explains it all: http://greensock.com/why-license/ Copyright (c) 2008-2018, GreenSock. All rights reserved.