Hey, do have a minute for a quick survey on how we are doing with EventBus? EventBus EventBus is a publish/subscribe event bus for Android and Java. EventBus... simplifies the communication between components decouples event senders and receivers performs well with Activities, Fragments, and background threads avoids complex and error-prone dependencies and life cycle issues makes your code simpler is fast is tiny (~50k jar) is proven in practice by apps with 100,000,000+ installs has advanced features like delivery threads, subscriber priorities, etc. EventBus in 3 steps Define events: java public static class MessageEvent { /* Additional fields if needed */ } Prepare subscribers: Declare and annotate your subscribing method, optionally specify a thread mode: java @Subscribe(threadMode = ThreadMode.MAIN) public void onMessageEvent(MessageEvent event) {/* Do something */}; Register and unregister your subscriber. For example on Android, activities and fragments should usually register according to their life cycle: ```java @Override public void onStart() { super.onStart(); EventBus.getDefault().register(this); } @Override public void onStop() { super.onStop(); EventBus.getDefault().unregister(this); } ``` Post events: java EventBus.getDefault().post(new MessageEvent()); Read the full getting started guide. Add EventBus to your project Via Gradle: gradle compile org.greenrobot:eventbus:3.1.1 Via Maven: xml <dependency> <groupId>org.greenrobot</groupId> <artifactId>eventbus</artifactId> <version>3.1.1</version> </dependency> Or download the latest JAR from Maven Central. Homepage, Documentation, Links For more details please check the EventBus website. Here are some direct links you may find useful: Features Documentation ProGuard Changelog FAQ How does EventBus compare to other solutions, like Otto from Square? Check this comparison. License Copyright (C) 2012-2017 Markus Junginger, greenrobot (http://greenrobot.org) EventBus binaries and source code can be used according to the Apache License, Version 2.0. More Open Source by greenrobot ObjectBox (GitHub) is a new superfast object-oriented database for mobile. Essentials (GitHub) is a set of utility classes and hash functions for Android & Java projects. greenDAO (GitHub) is an ORM optimized for Android: it maps database tables to Java objects and uses code generation for optimal speed. Follow us on Google+ or check our homepage to stay up to date.