gRPC - An RPC library and framework gRPC is a modern, open source, high-performance remote procedure call (RPC) framework that can run anywhere. It enables client and server applications to communicate transparently, and makes it easier to build connected systems. Homepage: grpc.io Mailing List: grpc-io@googlegroups.com To start using gRPC To maximize usability, gRPC supports the standard way of adding dependencies in your language of choice (if there is one). In most languages, the gRPC runtime comes in form of a package available in your languages package manager. For instructions on how to use the language-specific gRPC runtime in your project, please refer to these documents C++: follow the instructions under the src/cpp directory C#: NuGet package Grpc Dart: pub package grpc Go: go get google.golang.org/grpc Java: Use JARs from Maven Central Repository Node: npm install grpc Objective-C: Add gRPC-ProtoRPC dependency to podspec PHP: pecl install grpc Python: pip install grpcio Ruby: gem install grpc WebJS: follow the grpc-web instructions You can find per-language quickstart guides and tutorials in Documentation section on grpc.io website. The code examples are available in the examples directory. To start developing gRPC Contributions are welcome! Please read How to contribute which will guide you through the entire workflow of how to build the source code, how to run the tests and how to contribute your changes to the gRPC codebase. The document also contains info on how the contributing process works and contains best practices for creating contributions. Troubleshooting Sometimes things go wrong. Please check out the Troubleshooting guide if you are experiencing issues with gRPC. Performance See Performance dashboard for the performance numbers for the latest released version. Concepts See gRPC Concepts About This Repository This repository contains source code for gRPC libraries for multiple languages written on top of shared C core library src/core. Libraries in different languages may be in different states of development. We are seeking contributions for all of these libraries. | Language | Source | |-------------------------|-------------------------------------| | Shared C [core library] | src/core | | C++ | src/cpp | | Ruby | src/ruby | | Python | src/python | | PHP | src/php | | C# | src/csharp | | Objective-C | src/objective-c | | Language | Source repo | |-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------| | Java | grpc-java | | Go | grpc-go | | NodeJS | grpc-node | | WebJS | grpc-web | | Dart | grpc-dart |