HTML5 Boilerplate HTML5 Boilerplate is a professional front-end template for building fast, robust, and adaptable web apps or sites. This project is the product of years of iterative development and community knowledge. It does not impose a specific development philosophy or framework, so youre free to architect your code in the way that you want. Homepage: https://html5boilerplate.com/ Source: https://github.com/h5bp/html5-boilerplate Twitter: @h5bp Quick start Choose one of the following options: Download the latest stable release from html5boilerplate.com. Clone the git repo — git clone https://github.com/h5bp/html5-boilerplate.git - and checkout the tagged release youd like to use. Run npm install html5-boilerplate and pull in what you need from the resulting node_modules/html5-boilerplate/dist Features HTML5 ready. Use the new elements with confidence. Designed with progressive enhancement in mind. Includes: Normalize.css for CSS normalizations and common bug fixes jQuery via CDN with SRI Hash and a local fallback A custom build of Modernizr for feature detection Apache Server Configs that, among other, improve the web sites performance and security Placeholder CSS Media Queries. Useful CSS helper classes. Default print styles, performance optimized. An optimized version of the Google Universal Analytics snippet. Protection against any stray console statements causing JavaScript errors in older browsers. "Delete-key friendly." Easy to strip out parts you dont need. Extensive inline and accompanying documentation. Browser support Chrome (latest 2) Edge (latest 2) Firefox (latest 2) Internet Explorer 9+ Opera (latest 2) Safari (latest 2) This doesnt mean that HTML5 Boilerplate cannot be used in older browsers, just that well ensure compatibility with the ones mentioned above. If you need legacy browser support you can use HTML5 Boilerplate v4 (IE 6+, Firefox 3.6+, Safari 4+), or HTML5 Boilerplate v5 (IE8+). They are no longer actively developed. Documentation Take a look at the documentation table of contents. This documentation is bundled with the project which makes it available for offline reading and provides a useful starting point for any documentation you want to write about your project. Contributing Hundreds of developers have helped to make the HTML5 Boilerplate. Anyone is welcome to contribute, however, if you decide to get involved, please take a moment to review the guidelines: Bug reports Feature requests Pull requests License The code is available under the MIT license.