Effeckt.css A Performant Transitions and Animations Library : http://h5bp.github.io/Effeckt.css Ever notice how small flourishes and subtle transitions dramatically increases the value of the experience you enjoy with an app or site? Designing and developing UIs for the mobile web is tricky, but its extremely difficult to do that while delivering something that performs at 60fps. The best opportunities to getting jank-free transitions on phones/tablets are CSS transition and keyframe animation based, especially tapping into hardware-accelerated transforms and opacity changes. @daneden did really nice work with Animate.css but I think the web would benefit if we could take that work to the next level. Theres already been fantastic experiments and demos exploring CSS-based transitions, but its distributed all over. Originally started at h5bp/lazyweb-requests#122 Effeckt Trailer Examples To Add tympanus.net/Development/ModalWindowEffects/ tympanus.net/Development/PageTransitions/ tympanus.net/Development/PFold/index2.html leaverou.github.io/animatable/ lab.hakim.se/ladda/ lab.hakim.se/kontext/ lab.hakim.se/avgrund/ lab.hakim.se/meny/ Because there are so many, I expect we could group things by role: button/touch effects state transition modal/notification transition attention attractors Goals Provide a minimal UI. Only use style hooks for transitions and animations. Designer-curated set of classy and reasonable effects. (no easeInBounce) Establish browser support guidelines (e.g. Android 2.3 would gracefully degrade) CSS performance regression testing (a la bench.topcoat.io) Deliver jank-free 60fps performance on target browsers/devices If a particular effect cannot deliver target performance (hey blur() css filter), it cannot be included. Guidelines on what to avoid when styling these affected elements (avoid expensive CSS) Deliver a builder so users can pull only the CSS they need. There is no hover on the mobile web, so any hover-based effects would be excluded or have a tap-based equivalent. Action If you know other transition/animation based demos/experiments that make sense to include here, file a ticket. If youre interested in helping to define the API, lets hear it! File a ticket. A web-based builder is a must. A command-line builder isnt important for this. Getting Started https://github.com/h5bp/Effeckt.css/wiki/Getting-Started Code Style Guide https://github.com/h5bp/Effeckt.css/wiki/Code-Style-Guide General Inquiries & Support Effeckt.css Mailing List https://groups.google.com/d/forum/effeckt Bug Reports & Feature Requests http://github.com/h5bp/Effeckt.css/issues