Handsontable Community Edition (CE) is an open source JavaScript/HTML5 UI Spreadsheet component for web apps. It easily integrates with any data source and comes with a variety of useful features like data binding, validation, sorting or powerful context menu. It is available for Vue, React, Angular and Polymer. If you are looking for an extended version, try out Handsontable Pro. We are looking for Contributors who would like to help us with translations. Learn more Most wanted languages: Danish, Italian, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish. Table of contents What to use it for? Installation Basic usage Examples Features Screenshot Resources Wrappers Support Contributing Community License What to use it for? The list below gives a rough idea on what you can do with Handsontable CE, but it shouldnt limit you in any way: Database editing Configuration controlling Data merging Team scheduling Sales reporting Financial analysis Installation There are many ways to install Handsontable CE, but we suggest using npm: npm install handsontable Alternative ways to install - See the download section on how to install Handsontable CE using nuget, bower, yarn and more. Basic usage Assuming that you have already installed Handsontable CE, create an empty <div> element that will be turned into a spreadsheet: html <div id="example"></div> In the next step, pass a reference to that <div> element into the Handsontable CE constructor and fill the instance with sample data: ```javascript var data = [ ["", "Tesla", "Volvo", "Toyota", "Honda"], ["2017", 10, 11, 12, 13], ["2018", 20, 11, 14, 13], ["2019", 30, 15, 12, 13] ]; var container = document.getElementById(example); var hot = new Handsontable(container, { data: data, rowHeaders: true, colHeaders: true }); ``` Examples See a live demo Features Some of the most popular features include: Sorting data Data validation Conditional formatting Freezing rows/columns Merging cells Defining custom cell types Moving rows/columns Resizing rows/columns Context menu Adding comments to cells Dragging fill handle to populate data Internationalization Non-contiguous selection See a comparison table Screenshot Resources API Reference Compatibility Change log Roadmap Newsroom Wrappers Handsontable CE comes with wrappers and directives for most popular frameworks: Angular Angular 1 React Vue Polymer Typescript file Support Report all the suggestions and problems on GitHub Issues. An open source version doesnt include a commercial support. You need to purchase Handsontable Pro license or contact us directly in order to obtain a technical support from the Handsoncode team. Contributing If you would like to help us to develop Handsontable, please take a look at this guide for contributing. Community GitHub issues Stackoverflow Forum Twitter License Handsontable Community Edition is released under the MIT license. Read license. Copyrights belong to Handsoncode sp. z o.o.