Web and services application framework Lead Maintainer: Eran Hammer hapi is a simple to use configuration-centric framework with built-in support for input validation, caching, authentication, and other essential facilities for building web and services applications. hapi enables developers to focus on writing reusable application logic in a highly modular and prescriptive approach. Version 17.x only supports node v8.9.0 and over. For older version of node please use version 16.x. Development version: 17.5.x (release notes) For the latest updates, change log, and release information visit hapijs.com and follow @hapijs on twitter. If you have questions, please open an issue in the discussion forum. Sponsorship Development of the hapi core module generously supported by contributions from individuals and corporations. If you are benefiting from hapi and would like to help keep the project financially sustainable, please visit Eran Hammers Patreon page or contact him via email. Featured Sponsors Lob enables you to seamlessly print and mail documents, postcards, checks, and more via an API. They have been an early hapi adopters and vocal supporters. If you are looking to take your hapi and JS skills to the next level, check out their career page for exciting opportunities. Active Supporters CNN Digital Contentful The product development team at Creative Artists Agency First + Third Legacy Supporters Past major financial support for the project was provided by: - Benjamin Flesch and StriveWire