Homebrew-Cask “To install, drag this icon…” no more! Homebrew-Cask extends Homebrew and brings its elegance, simplicity, and speed to the installation and management of GUI macOS applications such as Atom and Google Chrome. We do this by providing a friendly Homebrew-style CLI workflow for the administration of macOS applications distributed as binaries. Lets try it! To start using Homebrew-Cask, you just need Homebrew installed. Slower, now: ``` $ brew cask install atom ==> Satisfying dependencies complete ==> Downloading https://github.com/atom/atom/releases/download/v1.8.0/atom-mac.zip ################################################################## 100.0% ==> Verifying checksum for Cask atom ==> Moving App Atom.app to /Applications/Atom.app ==> Symlinking Binary apm to /usr/local/bin/apm ==> Symlinking Binary atom.sh to /usr/local/bin/atom 🍺 atom was successfully installed! ``` And there we have it. Atom installed with one quick command: no clicking, no dragging, no dropping. Learn More Find basic documentation on using Homebrew-Cask in USAGE.md Want to contribute a Cask? Awesome! See CONTRIBUTING.md Want to hack on our code? Also awesome! See hacking.md More project-related details and discussion are available in the documentation Reporting bugs If you ignore this guide, your issue may be closed without review. Before reporting a bug, run brew update-reset && brew update and try your command again. This will ensure the problem isnt an outdated setup on your side. Note this command is a fix-all that will reset the state of all your taps, so if you have changes on those that you want to keep, deal with them first. If your issue persists, search for it before opening a new one. If you find an open issue and have any new information not reported in the original, please add your insights. If you find a closed issue, try the solutions there. If the issue is still not solved, see the guides for common problems: A cask fails to install: curl error Permission denied error Checksum does not match error source is not there error wrong number of arguments error Unlisted reason uninstall wrongly reports cask as not installed Error: Unknown command: cask error My problem isnt listed Requests Cask requests will be automatically closed. If you want a cask added, submit a pull request. For a feature request, use this template. Questions? Wanna chat? Were really rather friendly! Here are the best places to talk about the project: If none of the templates above is appropriate, open an issue. Join us (and caskbot) on IRC at #homebrew-cask on Freenode Join us on Gitter License Code is under the BSD 2 Clause (NetBSD) license