Homebrew Features, usage and installation instructions are summarised on the homepage. Terminology (e.g. the difference between a Cellar, Tap, Cask and so forth) is explained here. What Packages Are Available? Type brew search for a list. Or visit formulae.brew.sh to browse packages online. Or use brew search --desc <keyword> to browse packages from the command line. More Documentation brew help, man brew or check our documentation. Troubleshooting First, please run brew update and brew doctor. Second, read the Troubleshooting Checklist. If you dont read these it will take us far longer to help you with your problem. Contributing Wed love you to contribute to Homebrew. First, please read our Contribution Guide and Code of Conduct. We explicitly welcome contributions from people who have never contributed to open-source before: we were all beginners once! We can help build on a partially working pull request with the aim of getting it merged. We are also actively seeking to diversify our contributors and especially welcome contributions from women from all backgrounds and people of colour. A good starting point for contributing is running brew audit --strict with some of the packages you use (e.g. brew audit --strict wget if you use wget) and then read through the warnings, try to fix them until brew audit --strict shows no results and submit a pull request. If no formulae you use have warnings you can run brew audit --strict without arguments to have it run on all packages and pick one. Alternatively, for something more substantial, check out one of the issues labeled help wanted in Homebrew/brew or Homebrew/homebrew-core. Good luck! Security Please report security issues to our HackerOne. Who Are You? Homebrews lead maintainer is Mike McQuaid. Homebrew/homebrew-cores lead maintainer is ilovezfs. Homebrew/brews other current maintainers are ilovezfs, JCount, Misty De Meo, Gautham Goli, Markus Reiter and William Woodruff. Homebrew/homebrew-cores other current maintainers are FX Coudert, JCount, Misty De Meo and Tom Schoonjans. Former maintainers with significant contributions include Tim Smith, Baptiste Fontaine, Xu Cheng, Martin Afanasjew, Dominyk Tiller, Brett Koonce, Charlie Sharpsteen, Jack Nagel, Adam Vandenberg, Andrew Janke, Alex Dunn, neutric, Tomasz Pajor, Uladzislau Shablinski, Alyssa Ross, and Homebrews creator: Max Howell. Community discourse.brew.sh (forum) freenode.net#machomebrew (IRC) @MacHomebrew (Twitter) License Code is under the BSD 2-clause "Simplified" License. Documentation is under the Creative Commons Attribution license. Donations Homebrew is a non-profit project run entirely by unpaid volunteers. We need your funds to pay for software, hardware and hosting around continuous integration and future improvements to the project. Every donation will be spent on making Homebrew better for our users. Please consider a regular donation through Patreon: Alternatively, if youd rather make a one-off payment: Donate with PayPal Donate by USA $ check from a USA bank: Make check payable to "Software Freedom Conservancy, Inc." and place "Directed donation: Homebrew" in the memo field. Checks should then be mailed to: Software Freedom Conservancy, Inc. 137 Montague ST STE 380 BROOKLYN, NY 11201 USA Donate by wire transfer: contact accounting@sfconservancy.org for wire transfer details. Homebrew is a member of the Software Freedom Conservancy which provides us with an ability to receive tax-deductible, Homebrew earmarked donations (and many other services). Software Freedom Conservancy, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) organization incorporated in New York, and donations made to it are fully tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Sponsors Our Xserve ESXi boxes for CI are hosted by MacStadium. Our Jenkins CI installation is hosted by DigitalOcean. Our physical hardware is hosted by Commsworld. Our bottles (binary packages) are hosted by Bintray. Secure password storage and syncing provided by 1Password for Teams by AgileBits. Homebrew is a member of the Software Freedom Conservancy.