IPsec VPN Server Auto Setup Scripts Set up your own IPsec VPN server in just a few minutes, with both IPsec/L2TP and Cisco IPsec on Ubuntu, Debian and CentOS. All you need to do is provide your own VPN credentials, and let the scripts handle the rest. An IPsec VPN encrypts your network traffic, so that nobody between you and the VPN server can eavesdrop on your data as it travels via the Internet. This is especially useful when using unsecured networks, e.g. at coffee shops, airports or hotel rooms. We will use Libreswan as the IPsec server, and xl2tpd as the L2TP provider. » Related tutorial: IPsec VPN Server Auto Setup with Libreswan Read this in other languages: English, 简体中文. Table of Contents Quick start Features Requirements Installation Next steps Important notes Upgrade Libreswan Bugs & Questions Uninstallation See also License Quick start First, prepare your Linux server* with a fresh install of Ubuntu LTS, Debian or CentOS. Use this one-liner to set up an IPsec VPN server: bash wget https://git.io/vpnsetup -O vpnsetup.sh && sudo sh vpnsetup.sh If using CentOS, replace the link above with https://git.io/vpnsetup-centos. Your VPN login details will be randomly generated, and displayed on the screen when finished. For other installation options and how to set up VPN clients, read the sections below. * A dedicated server or virtual private server (VPS). OpenVZ VPS is not supported. Features New: The faster IPsec/XAuth ("Cisco IPsec") mode is supported New: A pre-built Docker image of the VPN server is now available Fully automated IPsec VPN server setup, no user input needed Encapsulates all VPN traffic in UDP - does not need ESP protocol Can be directly used as "user-data" for a new Amazon EC2 instance Includes sysctl.conf optimizations for improved performance Tested with Ubuntu 18.04/16.04/14.04, Debian 9/8 and CentOS 7/6 Requirements A newly created Amazon EC2 instance, from these images (AMIs): - Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic), 16.04 (Xenial) or 14.04 (Trusty) - Debian 9 (Stretch) or 8 (Jessie) - CentOS 7 (x86_64) with Updates - CentOS 6 (x86_64) with Updates Please see detailed instructions and EC2 pricing. -OR- A dedicated server or KVM/Xen-based virtual private server (VPS), freshly installed with one of the above OS. OpenVZ VPS is not supported, users could instead try OpenVPN or Shadowsocks. This also includes Linux VMs in public clouds, such as DigitalOcean, Vultr, Linode, Google Compute Engine, Amazon Lightsail, Microsoft Azure, IBM Cloud, OVH and Rackspace. » I want to run my own VPN but dont have a server for that Advanced users can set up the VPN server on a $35 Raspberry Pi 3. :warning: DO NOT run these scripts on your PC or Mac! They should only be used on a server! Installation Ubuntu & Debian First, update your system with apt-get update && apt-get dist-upgrade and reboot. This is optional, but recommended. To install the VPN, please choose one of the following options: Option 1: Have the script generate random VPN credentials for you (will be displayed when finished): bash wget https://git.io/vpnsetup -O vpnsetup.sh && sudo sh vpnsetup.sh Option 2: Edit the script and provide your own VPN credentials: bash wget https://git.io/vpnsetup -O vpnsetup.sh nano -w vpnsetup.sh [Replace with your own values: YOUR_IPSEC_PSK, YOUR_USERNAME and YOUR_PASSWORD] sudo sh vpnsetup.sh Option 3: Define your VPN credentials as environment variables: ```bash All values MUST be placed inside single quotes DO NOT use these special characters within values: \ " wget https://git.io/vpnsetup -O vpnsetup.sh && sudo \ VPN_IPSEC_PSK=your_ipsec_pre_shared_key \ VPN_USER=your_vpn_username \ VPN_PASSWORD=your_vpn_password sh vpnsetup.sh ``` Note: If unable to download via wget, you may also open vpnsetup.sh (or vpnsetup_centos.sh) and click the Raw button. Press Ctrl-A to select all, Ctrl-C to copy, then paste into your favorite editor. CentOS & RHEL First, update your system with yum update and reboot. This is optional, but recommended. Follow the same steps as above, but replace https://git.io/vpnsetup with https://git.io/vpnsetup-centos. Next steps Get your computer or device to use the VPN. Please refer to: Configure IPsec/L2TP VPN Clients Configure IPsec/XAuth ("Cisco IPsec") VPN Clients How-To: IKEv2 VPN for Windows 7 and above If you get an error when trying to connect, see Troubleshooting. Enjoy your very own VPN! :sparkles::tada::rocket::sparkles: Important notes Read this in other languages: English, 简体中文. For Windows users, this one-time registry change is required if the VPN server and/or client is behind NAT (e.g. home router). The same VPN account can be used by your multiple devices. However, due to an IPsec/L2TP limitation, if you wish to connect multiple devices simultaneously from behind the same NAT (e.g. home router), you must use only IPsec/XAuth mode. For servers with an external firewall (e.g. EC2/GCE), open UDP ports 500 and 4500 for the VPN. If you wish to add, edit or remove VPN user accounts, see Manage VPN Users. Clients are set to use Google Public DNS when the VPN is active. If another DNS provider is preferred, replace 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 in both /etc/ppp/options.xl2tpd and /etc/ipsec.conf. Then reboot your server. Using kernel support could improve IPsec/L2TP performance. It is available on Ubuntu 18.04/16.04, Debian 9 and CentOS 7/6. Ubuntu users need to install the linux-image-extra-`uname -r` package and run service xl2tpd restart. To modify the IPTables rules after install, edit /etc/iptables.rules and/or /etc/iptables/rules.v4 (Ubuntu/Debian), or /etc/sysconfig/iptables (CentOS). Then reboot your server. When connecting via IPsec/L2TP, the VPN server has IP 192.168.42.1 within the VPN subnet 192.168.42.0/24. The scripts will backup existing config files before making changes, with .old-date-time suffix. Upgrade Libreswan The additional scripts vpnupgrade.sh and vpnupgrade_centos.sh can be used to upgrade Libreswan (changelog | announce). Edit the SWAN_VER variable as necessary. Check which version is installed: ipsec --version. ```bash Ubuntu & Debian wget https://git.io/vpnupgrade -O vpnupgrade.sh CentOS & RHEL wget https://git.io/vpnupgrade-centos -O vpnupgrade.sh ``` Bugs & Questions Got a question? Please first search other peoples comments in this Gist and on my blog. Ask VPN related questions on the Libreswan or strongSwan mailing list, or read these wikis: [1] [2] [3] [4] [5]. If you found a reproducible bug, open a GitHub Issue to submit a bug report. Uninstallation Please refer to Uninstall the VPN. See also IPsec VPN Server on Docker IKEv2 VPN Server on Docker Streisand Algo VPN OpenVPN Install License Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Lin Song Based on the work of Thomas Sarlandie (Copyright 2012) This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License Attribution required: please include my name in any derivative and let me know how you have improved it!