the line below needs to be an empty line C: (its because kramdown isnt that smart and dearly wants an empty line before a heading to be able to display it as such, e.g. website) Design patterns implemented in Java Introduction Design patterns are formalized best practices that the programmer can use to solve common problems when designing an application or system. Design patterns can speed up the development process by providing tested, proven development paradigms. Reusing design patterns helps to prevent subtle issues that can cause major problems, and it also improves code readability for coders and architects who are familiar with the patterns. Getting started Before you dive into the material, you should be familiar with various Programming/Software Design Principles. All designs should be as simple as possible. You should start with KISS, YAGNI, and Do The Simplest Thing That Could Possibly Work principles. Complexity and patterns should only be introduced when they are needed for practical extensibility. Once you are familiar with these concepts you can start drilling down into patterns by any of the following approaches Using difficulty tags, Difficulty-Beginner, Difficulty-Intermediate & Difficulty-Expert. Using pattern categories, Creational, Behavioral and others. Search for a specific pattern. Cant find one? Please report a new pattern here. How to contribute If you are willing to contribute to the project you will find the relevant information in our developer wiki. We will help you and answer your questions in the Gitter chatroom. License This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.