impress.js Its a presentation framework based on the power of CSS3 transforms and transitions in modern browsers and inspired by the idea behind prezi.com. WARNING impress.js may not help you if you have nothing interesting to say ;) HOW TO USE IT Checking out and initializing the git repository git clone --recursive https://github.com/impress/impress.js.git cd impress.js Note: For a minimal checkout, omit the --recursive option. This will leave out extra plugins. Stable releases New features and fixes are continuously merged into the master branch, which is what the above command will check out. For the latest stable release, see the Github Releases page. Documentation Reference documentation of core impress.js features and API you can find it in DOCUMENTATION.md. The HTML source code of the official impress.js demo serves as a good example usage and contains comments explaning various features of impress.js. For more information about styling you can look into CSS code which shows how classes provided by impress.js can be used. Last but not least JavaScript code of impress.js has some useful comments if you are interested in how everything works. Feel free to explore! Official demo impress.js demo by @bartaz Examples and demos The Classic Slides demo is targeted towards beginners, or can be used as a template for presentations that look like the traditional PowerPoint slide deck. Over time, it also grew into the example presentation that uses most of the features and addons available. More examples and demos can be found on Examples and demos wiki page. Feel free to add your own example presentations (or websites) there. Other tutorials and learning resources If you want to learn even more there is a list of tutorials and other learning resources on the wiki, too. There is also a book available about Building impressive presentations with impress.js by Rakhitha Nimesh Ratnayake. You may want to check out the sibling project Impressionist: a 3D GUI editor that can help you in creating impress.js presentations. Mailing list Youre welcome to ask impress.js related questions on the impressionist-presentations mailing list. REPOSITORY STRUCTURE index.html: This is the official impress.js demo, showcasing all of the features of the original impress.js, as well as some new plugins as we add them. As already mentioned, this file is well commented and acts as the official tutorial. examples/: Contains several demos showcasing additional features available. Classic Slides is a simple demo that that you can use as template if you want to create very simple, rectangular, PowerPoint-like presentations. src/: The main file is src/impress.js. Additional functionality is implemented as plugins in src/plugins/. See src/plugins/README.md for information about the plugin API and how to write plugins. test/: Contains QUnit and Syn libraries that we use for writing tests, as well as some test coverage for core functionality. (Yes, more tests are much welcome.) Tests for plugins are in the directory of each plugin. js/: Contains js/impress.js, which contains a concatenation of the core src/impress.js and all the plugins. Traditionally this is the file that youll link to in a browser. In fact both the demo and test files do exactly that. css/: Contains a CSS file used by the demo. This file is not required for using impress.js in your own presentations. Impress.js creates the CSS it needs dynamically. extras/ contains plugins that for various reasons arent enabled by default. You have to explicitly add them with their own script element to use them. build.js: Simple build file that creates js/impress.js. It also creates a minified version impress.min.js, but that one is not included in the github repository. package.json: An NPM package specification. This was mainly added so you can easily install buildify and run node build.js. Other than the build process, which is really just doing roughly cat src/impress.js src/plugins/*/*.js > js/impress.js, and testing, impress.js itself doesnt depend on Node or any NPM modules. bower.json: A Bower package file. We also dont depend on Bower, but provide this file if you want to use it. WANT TO CONTRIBUTE? For developers, once youve made changes to the code, you should run these commands for testing: npm run build npm run test npm run lint Note that running firefox qunit_test_runner.html is usually more informative than running karma with npm run test. They both run the same tests. More info about the src/ directory can be found in src/plugins/README.md. ABOUT THE NAME impress.js name is courtesy of @skuzniak. Its an (un)fortunate coincidence that a Open/LibreOffice presentation tool is called Impress ;) Reference API See the Reference API BROWSER SUPPORT The design goal for impress.js has been to showcase awesome CSS3 features as found in modern browser versions. We also use some new DOM functionality, and specifically do not use jQuery or any other JavaScript libraries, nor our own functions, to support older browsers. In general, recent versions of Firefox and Chrome are known to work well. Reportedly IE now works too. The typical use case for impress.js is to create presentations that you present from your own laptop, with a browser version you know works well. Some people also use impress.js successfully to embed animations or presentations in a web page, however, be aware that in this some of your visitors may not see the presentation correctly, or at all. In particular, impress.js makes use of the following JS and CSS features: DataSet API ClassList API CSS 3D Transforms CSS Transitions COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE Copyright 2011-2016 Bartek Szopka Copyright 2015-2017 Henrik Ingo Released under the MIT License