Less Talk More Action Looking for Version 1? Were in the process of rolling out v2, so thats merged into master now. Version 1.x is located here if youre looking for whats currently shipping! What is Reactotron? A macOS, Windows, and Linux app for inspecting your React JS and React Native apps. Use it to: view your application state show API requests & responses perform quick performance benchmarks subscribe to parts of your application state display messages similar to console.log track global errors with source-mapped stack traces including saga stack traces! dispatch actions like a government-run mind control experiment hot swap your apps state using Redux or mobx-state-tree track your sagas show image overlay in React Native track your Async Storage in React Native You plug it into your app as a dev dependency so it adds nothing to your product builds. Desktop Reactotron on the left, demo React Native app on the right. Documentation Installing Quick start for React JS Quick start for React Native Tracking errors globally Open in editor Image Overlays Async Storage Networking Integrating with mobx-state-tree Integrating with Redux Integrating with Redux Saga Networking monitoring with Apisauce Storybook (React Native Only) Troubleshooting Tips and Tricks Release Notes Coming Soon API Docs Creating your own plugins The JSON interface between client & server Whats Inside This Repo? Contributors Quick Start Premium Support Reactotron, as an open source project, is free to use and always will be. Infinite Red offers premium React Native mobile app design/development services. Email us at hello@infinite.red to get in touch for more details.