InfluxDB An Open-Source Time Series Database InfluxDB is an open source time series database with no external dependencies. Its useful for recording metrics, events, and performing analytics. Features Built-in HTTP API so you dont have to write any server side code to get up and running. Data can be tagged, allowing very flexible querying. SQL-like query language. Simple to install and manage, and fast to get data in and out. It aims to answer queries in real-time. That means every data point is indexed as it comes in and is immediately available in queries that should return in < 100ms. Installation We recommend installing InfluxDB using one of the pre-built packages. Then start InfluxDB using: service influxdb start if you have installed InfluxDB using an official Debian or RPM package. systemctl start influxdb if you have installed InfluxDB using an official Debian or RPM package, and are running a distro with systemd. For example, Ubuntu 15 or later. $GOPATH/bin/influxd if you have built InfluxDB from source. Getting Started Create your first database curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8086/query" --data-urlencode "q=CREATE DATABASE mydb" Insert some data ``` curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8086/write?db=mydb" \ -d cpu,host=server01,region=uswest load=42 1434055562000000000 curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8086/write?db=mydb" \ -d cpu,host=server02,region=uswest load=78 1434055562000000000 curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8086/write?db=mydb" \ -d cpu,host=server03,region=useast load=15.4 1434055562000000000 ``` Query for the data JSON curl -G "http://localhost:8086/query?pretty=true" --data-urlencode "db=mydb" \ --data-urlencode "q=SELECT * FROM cpu WHERE host=server01 AND time < now() - 1d" Analyze the data JSON curl -G "http://localhost:8086/query?pretty=true" --data-urlencode "db=mydb" \ --data-urlencode "q=SELECT mean(load) FROM cpu WHERE region=uswest" Documentation Read more about the design goals and motivations of the project. Follow the getting started guide to learn the basics in just a few minutes. Learn more about InfluxDBs key concepts. Contributing If youre feeling adventurous and want to contribute to InfluxDB, see our contributing doc for info on how to make feature requests, build from source, and run tests. Looking for Support? InfluxDB offers a number of services to help your project succeed. We offer Developer Support for organizations in active development, Managed Hosting to make it easy to move into production, and Enterprise Support for companies requiring the best response times, SLAs, and technical fixes. Visit our support page or contact sales@influxdb.com to learn how we can best help you succeed.