HTML Webpack Plugin Plugin that simplifies creation of HTML files to serve your bundles Install Alpha bash npm i --save-dev html-webpack-plugin@next bash yarn add --dev html-webpack-plugin@next Install Stable bash npm i --save-dev html-webpack-plugin bash yarn add --dev html-webpack-plugin This is a webpack plugin that simplifies creation of HTML files to serve your webpack bundles. This is especially useful for webpack bundles that include a hash in the filename which changes every compilation. You can either let the plugin generate an HTML file for you, supply your own template using lodash templates or use your own loader. Plugins The html-webpack-plugin provides hooks to extend it to your needs. There are already some really powerful plugins which can be integrated with zero configuration webpack-subresource-integrity for enhanced asset security appcache-webpack-plugin for iOS and Android offline usage favicons-webpack-plugin which generates favicons and icons for iOS, Android and desktop browsers html-webpack-harddisk-plugin can be used to always write to disk the html file, useful when webpack-dev-server / HMR are being used html-webpack-inline-source-plugin to inline your assets in the resulting HTML file html-webpack-inline-svg-plugin to inline SVGs in the resulting HTML file. html-webpack-exclude-assets-plugin for excluding assets using regular expressions html-webpack-include-assets-plugin for including lists of js or css file paths (such as those copied by the copy-webpack-plugin). script-ext-html-webpack-plugin to add async, defer or module attributes to your <script> elements, or even inline them style-ext-html-webpack-plugin to convert your <link>s to external stylesheets into <style> elements containing internal CSS resource-hints-webpack-plugin to add resource hints for faster initial page loads using <link rel=preload> and <link rel=prefetch> preload-webpack-plugin for automatically wiring up asynchronous (and other types) of JavaScript chunks using <link rel=preload> helping with lazy-loading link-media-html-webpack-plugin allows for injected stylesheet <link /> tags to have their media attribute set automatically; useful for providing specific desktop/mobile/print etc. stylesheets that the browser will conditionally download inline-chunk-manifest-html-webpack-plugin for inlining webpacks chunk manifest. Default extracts manifest and inlines in <head> html-webpack-inline-style-plugin for inlining styles to HTML elements using juice. Useful for email generation automatisation. html-webpack-exclude-empty-assets-plugin removes empty assets from being added to the html. This fixes some problems with extract-text-plugin with webpack 4. webpack-concat-plugin for concat and uglify files that neednt to be webpack bundles(for legacy files) and inject to html-webpack-plugin. Usage The plugin will generate an HTML5 file for you that includes all your webpack bundles in the body using script tags. Just add the plugin to your webpack config as follows: webpack.config.js ```js const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require(html-webpack-plugin) module.exports = { entry: index.js, output: { path: __dirname + /dist, filename: index_bundle.js }, plugins: [ new HtmlWebpackPlugin() ] } ``` This will generate a file dist/index.html containing the following html <!DOCTYPE html> <html> <head> <meta charset="UTF-8"> <title>Webpack App</title> </head> <body> <script src="index_bundle.js"></script> </body> </html> If you have multiple webpack entry points, they will all be included with script tags in the generated HTML. If you have any CSS assets in webpacks output (for example, CSS extracted with the ExtractTextPlugin) then these will be included with <link> tags in the HTML head. If you have plugins that make use of it, html-webpack-plugin should be ordered first before any of the integrated plugins. Options You can pass a hash of configuration options to html-webpack-plugin. Allowed values are as follows |Name|Type|Default|Description| |:--:|:--:|:-----:|:----------| |title|{String}|Webpack App|The title to use for the generated HTML document| |filename|{String}|index.html|The file to write the HTML to. Defaults to index.html. You can specify a subdirectory here too (eg: assets/admin.html)| |template|{String}||`webpack` require path to the template. Please see the [docs](https://github.com/jantimon/html-webpack-plugin/blob/master/docs/template-option.md) for details| |**[`templateParameters`](#)**|`{Boolean\|Object\|Function}`|| Allows to overwrite the parameters used in the template | |inject|{Boolean\|String}|true|true \|\| head \|\| body \|\| false Inject all assets into the given template or templateContent. When passing true or body all javascript resources will be placed at the bottom of the body element. head will place the scripts in the head element| |favicon|{String}||Adds the given favicon path to the output HTML| |**[`meta`](#)**|`{Object}`|`{}`|Allows to inject `meta`-tags. E.g. `meta: {viewport: width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no}`| |**[`minify`](#)**|`{Boolean\|Object}`|`false`|Pass [html-minifier](https://github.com/kangax/html-minifier#options-quick-reference)s options as object to minify the output| |**[`hash`](#)**|`{Boolean}`|`false`|If `true` then append a unique `webpack` compilation hash to all included scripts and CSS files. This is useful for cache busting| |**[`cache`](#)**|`{Boolean}`|`true`|Emit the file only if it was changed| |**[`showErrors`](#)**|`{Boolean}`|`true`|Errors details will be written into the HTML page| |**[`chunks`](#)**|`{?}`|`?`|Allows you to add only some chunks (e.g only the unit-test chunk)| |**[`chunksSortMode`](#plugins)**|`{String\|Function}`|`auto`|Allows to control how chunks should be sorted before they are included to the HTML. Allowed values are `none \| auto \| dependency \| manual \| {Function}`| |**[`excludeChunks`](#)**|`{Array.<string>}`||Allows you to skip some chunks (e.g dont add the unit-test chunk)| |xhtml|{Boolean}|false|If true render the link tags as self-closing (XHTML compliant)| Heres an example webpack config illustrating how to use these options webpack.config.js js { entry: index.js, output: { path: __dirname + /dist, filename: index_bundle.js }, plugins: [ new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ title: My App, filename: assets/admin.html }) ] } Generating Multiple HTML Files To generate more than one HTML file, declare the plugin more than once in your plugins array webpack.config.js js { entry: index.js, output: { path: __dirname + /dist, filename: index_bundle.js }, plugins: [ new HtmlWebpackPlugin(), // Generates default index.html new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ // Also generate a test.html filename: test.html, template: src/assets/test.html }) ] } Writing Your Own Templates If the default generated HTML doesnt meet your needs you can supply your own template. The easiest way is to use the template option and pass a custom HTML file. The html-webpack-plugin will automatically inject all necessary CSS, JS, manifest and favicon files into the markup. js plugins: [ new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ title: Custom template, // Load a custom template (lodash by default see the FAQ for details) template: index.html }) ] index.html html <!DOCTYPE html> <html> <head> <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/> <title><%= htmlWebpackPlugin.options.title %></title> </head> <body> </body> </html> If you already have a template loader, you can use it to parse the template. Please note that this will also happen if you specifiy the html-loader and use .html file as template. webpack.config.js js module: { loaders: [ { test: /\.hbs$/, loader: "handlebars-loader" } ] }, plugins: [ new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ title: Custom template using Handlebars, template: index.hbs }) ] You can use the lodash syntax out of the box. If the inject feature doesnt fit your needs and you want full control over the asset placement use the default template of the html-webpack-template project as a starting point for writing your own. The following variables are available in the template: - htmlWebpackPlugin: data specific to this plugin - htmlWebpackPlugin.files: a massaged representation of the assetsByChunkName attribute of webpacks stats object. It contains a mapping from entry point name to the bundle filename, eg: json "htmlWebpackPlugin": { "files": { "css": [ "main.css" ], "js": [ "assets/head_bundle.js", "assets/main_bundle.js"], "chunks": { "head": { "entry": "assets/head_bundle.js", "css": [ "main.css" ] }, "main": { "entry": "assets/main_bundle.js", "css": [] }, } } } If youve set a publicPath in your webpack config this will be reflected correctly in this assets hash. htmlWebpackPlugin.options: the options hash that was passed to the plugin. In addition to the options actually used by this plugin, you can use this hash to pass arbitrary data through to your template. webpack: the webpack stats object. Note that this is the stats object as it was at the time the HTML template was emitted and as such may not have the full set of stats that are available after the webpack run is complete. webpackConfig: the webpack configuration that was used for this compilation. This can be used, for example, to get the publicPath (webpackConfig.output.publicPath). compilation: the webpack compilation object. This can be used, for example, to get the contents of processed assets and inline them directly in the page, through compilation.assets[...].source() (see the inline template example). Filtering Chunks To include only certain chunks you can limit the chunks being used webpack.config.js js plugins: [ new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ chunks: [app] }) ] It is also possible to exclude certain chunks by setting the excludeChunks option webpack.config.js js plugins: [ new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ excludeChunks: [ dev-helper ] }) ] Events To allow other plugins to alter the HTML this plugin executes the following events: SyncWaterfallHook htmlWebpackPluginAlterChunks AsyncSeriesWaterfallHook htmlWebpackPluginBeforeHtmlGeneration htmlWebpackPluginBeforeHtmlProcessing htmlWebpackPluginAlterAssetTags htmlWebpackPluginAfterHtmlProcessing htmlWebpackPluginAfterEmit Example implementation: html-webpack-harddisk-plugin plugin.js ```js function MyPlugin(options) { // Configure your plugin with options... } MyPlugin.prototype.apply = function (compiler) { compiler.hooks.compilation.tap(MyPlugin, (compilation) => { console.log(The compiler is starting a new compilation...); compilation.hooks.htmlWebpackPluginAfterHtmlProcessing.tapAsync( MyPlugin, (data, cb) => { data.html += The Magic Footer cb(null, data) } ) }) } module.exports = MyPlugin ``` webpack.config.js js plugins: [ new MyPlugin({ options: }) ] Note that the callback must be passed the HtmlWebpackPluginData in order to pass this onto any other plugins listening on the same html-webpack-plugin-before-html-processing event Maintainers Jan Nicklas Thomas Sileghem Contributors This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. Youre free to contribute to this project by submitting issues and/or pull requests. This project is test-driven, so keep in mind that every change and new feature should be covered by tests. This project uses the semistandard code style. Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 Become a backer Sponsors Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. Become a sponsor