List.js Perfect library for adding search, sort, filters and flexibility to tables, lists and various HTML elements. Built to be invisible and work on existing HTML. Really simple and easy to use! Core idea Simple and invisible Easy to apply to existing HTML No dependencies Fast Small Handle thousands of items Features Works both lists, tables and almost anything else. E.g. <div>,<ul>,<table>, etc. Search Read more › Sort Read more › Filter Read more › Simple templating system that adds possibility to add, edit, remove items Read more › Plugins Read more › Support for Chrome, Safari, Firefox, IE6+ Download / Install Via Bower bower install list.js Via NPM npm install list.js Via CDNJS html <script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/list.js/1.5.0/list.min.js"></script> Via Direct Download Compressed list.js Uncompressed list.js Demo / Examples Existing list Existing list + add New list Add, get, remove Fuzzy search Pagination Search in specific column Filter in range Show message filter/search results in 0 items Only show list after search/filter Documentation Getting started Options List API Item API Changelog Plugins Introduction Pagination Fuzzy search Build your own Thanks to all lovely contributors! Want to join them? Read more at listjs.com/overview/contribute Creator | | Jonny Strömberg @javve | | ------------- | ------------- | | | I hope you like the lib. Ive put a lot of hours into it! Feel free to follow me on Twitter for news and donate a coffee for good karma ;) License (MIT) Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Jonny Strömberg <jonny.stromberg@gmail.com> http://javve.com