Awesome Mac  Now we have become very big, Different from the original idea. Collect premium software in various categories. Feel free to star and fork. Any comments, suggestions? Let us know!. We love PRs :) Please take a look at the Contributing guidelines before opening one. Follow the awesome list. Explanation English | 中文 means open source, click to open open source repo;\ means free to use, or free personal license;\ means App store hyperlink; Contents Reading and Writing Tools Text Editors Office Markdown Editors Note-taking Ebooks RSS Others Developer Tools IDEs Developer Utilities Regular Expression Editors API Development and Analysis Network Analysis Command Line Tools Frameworks for Hybrid Applications Version Control Virtualization Databases Design and Product Design Tools Prototyping and Mind-Mapping Tools Screenshot Tools Other Tools Communication Collaboration and Team Tools Email Clients File Sharing Data Recovery Tools Audio and Video Tools Download Management Tools Cloud Storage Input Methods Browsers Translation Tools Security Tools Proxy and VPN Tools Utilities Clipboard Tools Menu Bar Tools File Organization Tools General Tools To-Do Lists Productivity Window Management Password Management Finder Tools Quality of Life Improvements System Related Tools Gaming Software Remote Login Software QuickLook Plugins Third Party App Markets Package Managers Mac App Download Sites Podcasts Reading and Writing Tools Applications to edit text, I suggest the open-source editors Text Editors Atom - Hackable text editor for the 21st century made by GitHub. Atom Plugins. Chocolat - Native text editor. CotEditor - Lightweight plain-text editor for macOS. Emacs - A popular text editor used mainly on Unix-based systems by programmers, scientists, engineers, students, and system administrators. LightTable - The next generation code editor. micro - Modern and intuitive terminal-based text editor. ONI - IDE powered by Neovim. Sublime Text - Sophisticated text editor for code, markup and prose. Youll love the slick user interface, extraordinary features and amazing performance, Sublime Text Plugins. TextMate - Editor that brings Apples approach to operating systems into the world of text editors. Tincta - Text editor for Mac OS X. Vim - Highly configurable text editor built to make creating and changing any kind of text very efficient, Vim Plugins. Vimr - Refined Vim Experience for OS X. Bear Writer - Beautiful, flexible writing app for crafting notes and prose. Office WPS - Free office software. LibreOffice - LibreOffice is free and open-source software office software. Software is tested and used daily by a large and devoted user community. OpenOffice - Compatible with other major office suites, Apache OpenOffice is free to download, use and distribute. Markdown Editors EME - Open-source Markdown editor with an interface like Chrome. iA Writer - Writing app with an emphasis on simplicity and design. LightPaper - Simple, beautiful, yet powerful text editor for your Mac. MacDown - Open-source Markdown editor for OS X. MarkText - Next generation markdown editor, running on platforms of MacOS Windows and Linux. Marked 2 - Markdown previewer, reviewer, and exporter. Great for people that already have a preferred way of editing Markdown, but want to get a live preview of the document they are working on. Marp - Markdown presentation writer with cross-platform support. Marxico - Delicate Markdown editor for Evernote. Reliable storage and sync. Mou - Markdown editor for developers, on Mac OS X. MWeb - Pro Markdown writing, note taking and static blog generator App. TextNut - Rich-format editor featuring Markdown export and Markdown syntax hints. Typora - Truly minimal Markdown editor featuring seamless live preview. Ulysses - The Ultimate Writing App for Mac, iPad and iPhone. Note-taking Boostnote - Note-taking app made for programmers. Evernote - Infamous note-taking app, available on many platforms. Inkdrop - Notebook app for Markdown lovers built on top of Electron. MarginNote - In-depth PDF and EPUB reading, learning, managing and note taking app. Notebook Note-taking app. Notes - Clean, simple note-taking app. OneNote - Note-taking app by Microsoft. QOwnNotes - Open-source notepad with markdown support and todo list manager. Quiver - The Programmers Notebook, lets you easily mix text, code, Markdown and LaTeX within one note, edit code with an awesome code editor and live preview Markdown and LaTeX. Ebooks Calibre - Free and open-source e-book computer software application suite which runs on multiple platforms, allows users to manage e-book collections as well as create, edit, and read e-books. [ ](https://github.com/kovidgoyal/calibre) iChm - Ebook reader for CHM (Microsoft Compiled HTML help) files. Kindle App - Amazon official reading app of kindle. Klib - New way to manage highlights for Kindle and iBooks. Scribus - Professional layout and publishing software supporting EPS and SVG import/export, and PDF support. Sigil - Multi-platform EPUB ebook Editor. [ ](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil) RSS Feeds 2 - Keep tabs on your favorite website and RSS feeds from your Macs menubar. [ ](https://github.com/nfarina/feeds) Leaf - Amazing news reader dedicated to help you enjoy your daily news and easily manage your subscriptions. ReadKit - Mac read-later client supporting all major providers: Instapaper, Pocket and Readability. Even more, ReadKit is a full-featured RSS reader as well. Reeder 3 - News reader for Feedbin, Feedly, Feed Wrangler and so on. Vienna - RSS/Atom reader for Mac OS X. [ ](https://github.com/ViennaRSS/vienna-rss) Others Chmox - Read CHM documents on your Mac. CHM Reader - Read Compiled HTML (.chm) documents on your Mac. PDF Expert - Read, annotate and edit PDFs, change text and images. Skim - PDF reader and note-taker for OS X. Spillo - Powerful, beautiful and amazingly fast Pinboard client for OS X. texpad - Great LaTeX editor for Mac with auto-update PDF and autocomplete LaTeX commands. Developer Tools IDEs Android Studio - The official IDE for Android, based on Intellij IDEA. AppCode - Smart IDE for iOS/macOS development BBEdit - The leading professional HTML and text editor for Mac. Brackets - Modern, open-source IDE for web design by Adobe. CLion - Powerful C and C++ IDE. (Free for Students) Coda2 - Fast, clean and powerful text editor. Deco IDE - The best IDE for building React Native apps. Eclipse - Popular open-source IDE, mainly for Java but with plugin support for a wide array of languages and platforms. Espresso - The web editor for Mac is back. For people who make delightful, innovative and fast websites. IntelliJ IDEA - Powerful Java IDE. (Free for Students) NetBeans IDE - Free and open-source IDE, mainly used for Java development, but supports many other languages and frameworks. PyCharm - Powerful Python IDE, which has professional version and community version. Qt - Cross-platform application framework. Visual Studio Code - Microsofts free & open-source editor, TypeScript friendly, VSCode Plugins. Visual Studio Community for Mac - Fully-featured IDE Free for students, open-source and individual developers. WebStorm - The smartest JavaScript IDE by JetBrains. FREE for Students, check here for more info. NodeJS Plugin - Node.js integration. You definitely need this, quite a few features require it. EditorConfig Plugin - JetBrains IDE plugin supporting the EditorConfig standard. Material Theme UI Plugin - Provides 3 modes, nice and clean. Xamarin Studio - Free cross platform C# IDE. Xamarin Studio supports iOS, Android and .Net development Xcode - Essential IDE for iOS/macOS development. Developer Utilities BetterRename - The most powerful and complete Mac file renaming application on the market. Beyond Compare - Compare files and folders using simple, powerful commands that focus on the differences you are interested in and ignore those you are not. CodeKit - Web development tool which can automatically compile Less, Sass, CoffeeScript, TypeScript, Jade and JavaScript, auto-refresh browsers and much more. Dash - Awesome API documentation browser and code snippet manager. DiffMerge - Application to visually compare and merge files. EnvPane - OS X preference pane for environment variables. [ ](https://github.com/hschmidt/EnvPane) FinderGo - Open terminal quickly from Finder. [ ](https://github.com/onmyway133/FinderGo) Finicky - Application that allows you to set up rules that decide which browser is opened for every link that would open the default browser. Gas Mask - Simple hosts file manager for Mac OS X. [ ](https://github.com/2ndalpha/gasmask) Gemini - Intelligent duplicate file finder. Hosts.prefpane - System preference pane to manage your hosts file. [ ](https://github.com/specialunderwear/Hosts.prefpane) iHosts - The only /etc/hosts editor on Mac App Store. Integrity - Free website link checker for Mac. Kaleidoscope - Powerful compare tool for text, images and folders. Works perfectly with git, svn or other version control tools. Koala - GUI application for Less, Sass, Compass and CoffeeScript compilation. [ ](https://github.com/oklai/koala/) LaunchRocket - Brew services management in Mac System Preferences. Localname - Provide access to your local development server. MJML - Framework that utilizes a semantic syntax and a rich standard components library, which allow users to easily create responsive emails. [ ](https://github.com/mjmlio/mjml) PaintCode - PaintCode is a unique vector drawing app that generates Objective-C or Swift code in real time, acting as a bridge between developers and graphic designers. PPRows - Application to calculate how many lines of code you write. SecureCRT - Terminal emulation which supports SSH, Telnet or other protocols. SnippetsLab - Easy-to-use code snippets manager. Solarized - Clean and beautiful color theme. Works well with iTerm, JetBrains products, Vim etc. StarUML - Powerful UML app. Swiftify - Objective-C to Swift code converter and Xcode & Finder extensions. SwitchHosts - Free and open-source app for hosts management & switching. TeXstudio - Integrated writing environment for creating LaTeX documents. Vagrant - Tool for building and distributing development environments. Vagrant Manager - Manage your vagrant machines in one place. [ ](https://github.com/lanayotech/vagrant-manager/) WWDC - The Mac OS unofficial WWDC app. [ ](https://github.com/insidegui/WWDC) zeplin - Collaboration tool for work between designers and developers. Regular Expression Editors Patterns - Regular expression editor. RegExRX - Development tool for regular expressions. Regex - Regular expression testing tool with an emphasis on simplicity. API Development and Analysis Cocoa Rest Client - Free, open-source, native Apple OS X app for testing HTTP/REST endpoints. Insomnia - The most intuitive cross-platform REST API Client. Postman - Powerful GUI platform to make your API development faster & easier, from building API requests through testing, documentation and sharing. Network Analysis Charles - HTTP proxy / HTTP monitor / Reverse Proxy that enables a developer to view all of the HTTP and SSL / HTTPS traffic between their machine and the Internet. Little Snitch - Network monitor with a world map for visualizing network connections. James - Open-source proxy tool for checking and mapping requests with http as well as https. mitmproxy - Interactive intercepting HTTP proxy for penetration testers and software developers. Paw - Advanced HTTP client. Proxie - HTTP debugging proxy. Wireshark - The worlds foremost and widely-used network protocol analyzer. Command Line Tools ack - A tool like grep, optimized for programmers. archey-osx - An archey script for OS X. asciinema - Easily record terminal sessions and replay them in a terminal as well as in a web browser. autojump - Replace cd with an intelligent autojump to easily navigate directories from the command line. bash-it - Shameless ripoff of oh-my-zsh for bash. Cakebrew - GUI client for Homebrew. Install, check or remove apps, no command-line needed. [ ](https://github.com/brunophilipe/Cakebrew/) ccat - The colorizing cat which works similar to cat but displays content with syntax highlighting. cool-retro-term - Good looking terminal emulator which mimics the old cathode display. [ ](https://github.com/Swordfish90/cool-retro-term) cmus - Small, fast and powerful console music player for Unix-like operating systems. Fish Shell - Smart and user-friendly terminal, which is similar with zsh. Glances - Glances is a cross-platform curses-based system monitoring tool. [ ](https://github.com/nicolargo/glances) htop - htop is an interactive text-mode process viewer for Unix systems. It aims to be a better top. [ ](https://github.com/hishamhm/htop) httpie - Modern command line HTTP client – user-friendly curl alternative with intuitive UI, JSON support, syntax highlighting, wget-like downloads, extensions, etc. hyper - A terminal built on web technologies. iTerm2 - iTerm2 is an amazing terminal emulator for OS X. itunes-remote - Software for controlling iTunes via the terminal. lnav - A log file navigator. Mac-CLI - The ultimate tool to manage your Mac. Automatize the usage of your OS X system. Mac OS X Manual Pages - Manual pages recommended reference for a number of BSD and POSIX functions and tools. mas - Simple command line interface for the Mac App Store. m-cli - Swiss Army Knife for macOS. mycli - CLI for MySQL that can do auto-completion and syntax highlighting. ndm - Manage npm straight from the couch. oh-my-fish - Alternative to oh-my-zsh，on fishShell framework. Oh my zsh - Open-source, community-driven framework for managing your ZSH configuration. It comes bundled with a ton of helpful functions, helpers, plugins, themes. [ ](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh) Prezto — Instantly Awesome Zsh - The configuration framework for Zsh; it enriches the command line interface environment with sane defaults, aliases, functions, auto completion, and prompt themes. Rebound - Instantly browse Stack Overflow results in your terminal when you get a compiler error. Serial - Full-featured serial terminal for the Mac. shallow-backup - Easily create text documentation of installed applications, dotfiles, and more. Termius - Free terminal tool,comparable to xshell on windows platform. tmux - "Terminal multiplexer", it enables a number of terminals (or windows) to be accessed and controlled from a single terminal. tmux is intended to be a simple, modern, BSD-licensed alternative to programs such as GNU screen. Upterm - Upterm (formerly Black Screen) is an IDE in the world of terminals. Strictly speaking, its both a terminal emulator and an interactive shell based on Electron. Frameworks For Hybrid Applications AppJS - Lightweight JavaScript UI library for creating mobile webapps that behave like native apps. [ ](https://github.com/appjs/appjs) create-dmg - Create a good-looking DMG for your macOS app in seconds. Electrino - Desktop runtime for apps built on web technologies, using the systems own web browser engine. Electron - Build cross platform desktop application with JavaScript, HTML and CSS. [ ](https://github.com/electron/electron) ionic - Build amazing native and progressive web apps with Angular and open web technologies. One app running on everything. MacGap - Provides a lightweight JavaScript API for OS X integration, such as displaying native notifications or writing data to a file. nw.js - Build desktop application with HTML and JavaScript. It lets you call all Node.js modules directly from DOM and enables a new way of writing applications with all Web technologies. [ ](https://github.com/nwjs/nw.js) react-desktop - React UI Components for macOS Sierra. React Native for Ubuntu - Build Ubuntu desktop apps using React Native. React Native macOS - Build OS X desktop apps using React Native and Cocoa. [ ](https://github.com/ptmt/react-native-desktop) ReactXP - Microsoft official production, support platform Web, iOS, Android and Windows UWP is still an ongoing work. Version Control Cornerstone - Powerful version control with a gorgeous interface. Fork - Fast and friendly Git client for Mac. Gitbar - Open-source，display Github contribution statistics on your menu bar. [ ](https://github.com/Shikkic/gitbar) GitFinder - Fast and lightweight Git client for Mac with Finder integration. GitHub Desktop - The official GitHub GUI. [ ](https://github.com/desktop/desktop) GitKraken - The most popular Git GUI for Windows, Mac and Linux. GitX-dev - Fork of Pieters nice git GUI for OS X. Includes branch/tag sidebar and various fixes. Hub - Command-line wrapper for Git that makes you better at GitHub. OhMyStar Beautiful and efficient way to manage, explore and share your Github Stars. SourceTree - Free Git & Mercurial client for Windows or Mac. SmartGit - Git client with support. Tower2 - The most powerful Git client for Mac and Windows. Versions - Mac Subversion (SVN) Client. Virtualization Docker - Powerful, performs operating-system-level virtualization. Parallels - Powerful, easy-to-use VM. No free upgrade for each new Mac OS. Veertu - The lightest VM on Mac. Responsive, sandboxed & native way to run VM on your Mac. Virtual Box - Powerful x86 and AMD64/Intel64 virtualization product. VMWare Fusion - Powerful, commercial VM developed by VMware. DockStation - Developer-centric application for managing projects based on Docker. Portainer - An open-source lightweight management UI which allows you to easily manage your docker hosts or swarm clusters. Databases Base 2 - Application for creating, designing, editing and browsing SQLite 3 database files. Bdash - Modern SQL client application, supports MySQL, PostgreSQL (Redshift) and BigQuery. Chrome MySQL Admin - Powerful Chrome app to manage your MySQL. [ ](https://github.com/yoichiro/chrome_mysql_admin) Core Data Editor - Core Data Editor lets you easily view, edit and analyze applications‘ data. DB Browser for SQLite - Official home of the DB Browser for SQLite. DBeaver - Universal SQL Client. DataGrip - Database management software by JetBrains. FREE for Students, check here for more info. Datum - SQLite - Full featured, modern, and fast SQLite manager. ElectroCRUD - Modern MySQL CRUD application. [ ](https://github.com/garrylachman/ElectroCRUD) JackDB - Secure, collaborative environment for your queries and data-driven insights. [ ](https://github.com/yoichiro/chrome_mysql_admin) Keylord - Desktop GUI client for Redis, Bolt, LevelDB and Memcached key-value databases. MDB Explorer - MDB tool to open, read, export your MDB files to other formats and databases. Medis - GUI Manager for Redis. Mongo Management Studio - Simple MongoDB GUI. MongoBooster - Shell-centric and cross-platform GUI tool for MongoDB. It provides update-in-place, fluent query builder, ES6 syntax support and True IntelliSense experience. MongoChef - GUI for MongoDB. mongoDB.app - The easiest way to get started with mongoDB on the Mac. [ ](https://github.com/gcollazo/mongodbapp) Mongotron - Mongo DB GUI built using Electron and Angular Js. [ ](https://github.com/officert/mongotron) MySQL Workbench - The official MySQL GUI. Navicat Data Modeler - Powerful and cost-effective database design tool which helps you build high-quality conceptual, logical and physical data models. PSequel - PostgreSQL GUI tool for Mac OS X. Postgres.app - The easiest way to get started with PostgreSQL on the Mac. [ ](https://github.com/PostgresApp/PostgresApp) Postico - Modern PostgreSQL client for Mac. RedisClient - Redis client application on mac, windows and linux. [ ](https://github.com/UUGU/redis-client-app) RedisDesktopManager - Cross-platform GUI management tool for Redis. Robo 3T - Native and cross-platform MongoDB management tool (Admin UI). [ ](https://github.com/Studio3T/robomongo) SQLPro Studio - Simple, powerful database manager for macOS. SQLight - SQLite database manager tool. Sequel Pro - MySQL database management for Mac OS X. TablePlus - Supports: PostgreSQL, MySQL, RedShift, MariaDB... High-end security ensured. Tableau Public - Free data-visualization software. Design and Product Design Tools Acorn - Great Mac OS X picture and photo editor, built for humans. Affinity Designer - Professional graphic design software for Mac. Affinity Photo - Professional image editing software for Mac. Blender - Free and open 3D creation software. [ ](https://developer.blender.org/) Pixelmator - Full-featured image editor for Mac. Sketch - Professional digital design for mac. Sketch Toolbox Plugin Manager - Simple plugin manager for Sketch. [ ](https://github.com/buzzfeed/Sketch-Toolbox) Measure Plugin - Make it a fun to create spec for developers and teammates. User Flows Plugin - Generating flow diagrams from Artboards. Sketch Cache Cleaner - Deletes hidden Sketch history files that can take a lot of space on your hard drive and that you would probably never use. Gravit Designer - Full featured free vector design app right at your fingertips. inklet - Turn your Mac trackpad into drawing board. Alchemy - Experimental, open-source drawing application with an emphasis on creating conceptual art. MyPaint - Simple drawing and painting program that works well with Wacom-style graphics tablets. GIMP - The GNU Image Manipulation Program. Inkscape - Professional vector graphics editor. Monodraw - Powerful ASCII art editor designed for the Mac. SketchBook - Drawing software for concept design, comic art, and digital sketching. Tayasui Sketches - Professional drawing software. Art Text 3 - This is graphic design software specifically tuned for lettering, typography, text mockups and various artistic text effects. FontForge - Free, open-source font editor. Nik Collection - Google Nik collection. Paintbrush - Bitmap image editor. Krita - Open-source digital painting software for concept artists, digital painters, and illustrators. Vectr - Free graphics editor used to create vector graphics easily and intuitively. Principle - Application for designing animated and interactive user interfaces. MagicaVoxel - Free, lightweight 8-bit voxel editor and interactive path tracing renderer. ScreenToLayers- Easily export your screen into a layered PSD file. Pixel Perfect - Tool to overlay design images over implementation and make it pixel perfect. Sparkle - Pro visual web design. Figma - The collaborative interface design tool, for vector graphics and UI prototyping. macSVG - Designing HTML5 SVG art and animation. Prototyping and Mind-Mapping Tools Adobe XD (Experience Design) - First all-in-one cross-platform tool for designing and prototyping websites and mobile apps. Axure RP 8 - Prototypes, specifications and diagrams in one tool. Balsamiq Mockups - Wire-framing tool that helps you work faster and smarter. Flinto - Quickly create interactive prototypes of mobile, desktop, or web apps. Framer - Tool for interactive prototyping. Justinmind - Prototyping platform for web and mobile apps. Kite - Powerful animation and prototyping application for Mac & iOS. Lighten - The best way to clarify thinking, boost productivity, brainstorm, and visualize concepts. Marvel - Simple design, prototyping and collaboration. MindNode - Mind-mapping software with an emphasis on simplicity and ease-of-use. MockFlow - Online prototyping suite for web-design and usability testing. Mockplus - Prototype faster, smarter and easier. OmniGraffle - Diagramming and graphic design for Mac, iPhone, and iPad. Origami Studio - Tool for designing modern interfaces, built and used by designers at Facebook. pencil - Free, open-source tool for making diagrams and GUI prototyping. Scapple - Practical mind-mapping software with free whiteboard-like layout. SimpleMind - The world leader in cross platform Mind Mapping tools. WriteMapper - Get from idea to final draft in no time. XMind - The most popular mind-mapping tool on the planet. yGraph Editor - High quality diagrams made easy. Screenshot Tools Gifox - Gif Recording and Sharing. Kap - Open-source screen-recorder built with web technology. KeyCastr - KeyCastr, an open-source keystroke visualizer. Licecap - Record your screen and export to GIF. You can change the recording area anytime during recording. Lightshot - The fastest way to take a customizable screenshot. Monosnap - Make screenshots. Draw on it. Shoot video and share your files. Its fast, easy and free. ScreenShot PSD - Capture the screen as a layered PSD for easy editing. Skitch - Screen capture application with a powerful annotation capabilities. Snip - Application for sharing captured images on QQ Mail. Snipaste - Simple but powerful snipping tool. Teampaper Snap - Let your screenshots speak up. Xnip - Handy Screenshot App. Other Tools APNGb - PNG image assembler/disassembler app. Couleurs - Simple app for grabbing and tweaking the colors you see on your screen. Frank DeLoupe - Color-picking tool, supports Retina. IconKit - App icon generator. Iconjar - Icon management tool to organize or search your icons. Image2icon - Create and personalize icons from your pictures. ImageAlpha - Compress images with PNG format and remove transparency. ImageOptim - Compress images and remove EXIF information. [ ](https://github.com/ImageOptim/ImageOptim) JPEGmini - Reduce image size by up to 80%, without compromising quality. Mark Man - Measure & Spec Fast. Resize Master - Batch resize and watermark your images fast and easy. RightFont - Preview, sync, install and manage fonts on Mac, Dropbox or Google Drive. Sip - The best way to collect, organize & share your colors. Snagit - Simple, Powerful Screen Capture Software and Screen Recorder. Spectrum - Easily and intuitively creating beautiful color schemes. TinyPNG4Mac - Open-source tool to compress images. [ ](https://github.com/kyleduo/TinyPNG4Mac) Tropy - Research Photo Management. iPic - Easily upload images with Markdown supported. svgus - Organize, clean and transform your SVGs. Communication Collaboration and Team Tools Adium - Free instant messaging application for Mac OS X. Connect to AIM, MSN, SMPP, Yahoo and more. Bitpost - Private, decentralized messaging system. Instead of connecting to centralized servers (like Facebook, Gmail, etc.) or federated servers (like email, IRC, Jabber), it uses P2P protocol to send encrypted messages to another person or to many subscribers. DingTalk - Free, powerful and professional office tool used by over 5 million enterprises and organizations globally. Franz - Electron based, multi-protocol wrapper for web-based chat. One application, 23 messenger services. Gitter - Instant messaging and chat room system for developers as well as GitHub users. Developer friendly with Markdown syntax support. Keybase - Crypto for everyone, not just programmers! LimeChat - Open-source IRC client for Mac OS X. [ ](https://github.com/psychs/limechat) Messenger For Mac - Third-party Facebook messenger for Mac. [ ](https://github.com/rsms/fb-mac-messenger) Rambox - Messaging and emailing app that combines common web applications into one. Riot - Create, share communicate. Chat and call securely. [ ](https://github.com/vector-im) Signal Desktop - Fast, simple, secure. Privacy that fits in your pocket. Slack - Awesome tool for team collaboration and communication. Skype - Cross-platform application that provides video chat and voice call services. Users can exchange images, text, video and any other digital documents. Teambition - Team collaboration tool, including many features like task plan, schedule, file sharing, instant discussion and everything you need when collaborating with other team members. Telegram - Messaging app with a focus on speed and security. Textual - Internet Relay Chat (IRC) client. WeChat - Official WeChat app for Mac. WeeChat - The extensible command-line chat client. WhatsApp Desktop - Available in the Mac App Store, Whatsapp for Desktop. Email Clients Airmail - Fast email client. For both Mac OS and iOS. Foxmail - Fast email client. MailTags - Use tags to organize email and schedule. N1 - Extensible, open-source mail app, free for developers and $7/month for Pro. Newton(formerly Cloudmagic) - An excellent email client with concise interface, scheduling and read receipts. Nylas Mail - Extensible desktop mail app built on the modern web. Polymail - Simple, beautiful and powerful email client. Postbox - Powerful, simple and beautiful email client, need to pay for a license. Spark - Fast email client. For both Mac OS and iOS. ThunderBird - Software that makes email easier. File Sharing Cyberduck - Free FTP, SFTP, WebDAV, S3, Backblaze B2, Azure and OpenStack Swift browser. FileZilla - Free software, cross-platform FTP application. Supports FTP, SFTP and FTPS (FTP over SSL/TLS). Flow - Award-winning, beautiful, fast, and reliable FTP + SFTP client. Fu - Upload images/files to remote server in exchange for url for file sharing. Transmit - Highly flexible and intuitive FTP client, supports SFTP, S3 and iDisk/WebDAV. Yummy FTP - Pro-level, fast, reliable FTP/S + SFTP + WebDAV/S file transfer app. Data Recovery Tools Data Rescue - Comprehensive and professional data recovery tool for most cases. DiskWarrior - The worlds most advanced repair and recovery tool for Mac. R-Studio for Mac - Powerful tool for recovering data on disks, even if their partitions are formatted, damaged or deleted. Stellar Phoenix Mac Data Recovery - Powerful tool for file recovery, Time machine recovery, Encrypted Disk recovery and much more. Audio and Video Tools Popcorn Time - Watch torrent movies instantly, This Popcorn Time service will never be taken down. Download and enjoy. Kodi - Award-winning free and open-source (GPL) software media center for playing videos, music, pictures, games, and more. mpv - Free, open-source, and cross-platform media player. IINA - The modern video player for macOS. Based on mpv, the powerful media player project. Soda Player - Player that can play seed, magnetic links, online video, automatic captions, links and local video files. VOX Player - High-definition audio player for Mac and iPhone. Music just sounds better! Sonora - Minimal, beautifully designed music player. [ ](https://github.com/sonoramac/Sonora) Audacity - Free, open-source, cross-platform audio software for multi-track recording and editing. [ ](https://github.com/audacity/audacity) Metadatics - Advanced Audio Metadata Editor. Natron - Open-source compositing software. Node-graph based. Similar in functionality to Adobe After Effects and Nuke by The Foundry. Ardour - Cross-platform audio software for multi-track recording and editing. Hydrogen - Professional yet simple and intuitive pattern-based drum programming for GNU/Linux. Audio Hijack - Record any applications audio, including VoIP calls from Skype, web streams from Safari, and much more. Stringed 2 - Music practice software designed to help users learn how to play their favorite songs. Mixxx - The most advanced free DJ software. [ ](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx) MuseScore - Free, open-source music notation software. Cog - Free, open-source audio player. [ ](https://bitbucket.org/mamburu/cog/) Elmedia Player - This media player is a super versatile app for any file format you probably may think of: FLV, MP4, AVI, MOV, DAT, MKV, MP3, FLAC, M4V are all supported as well as many others. VLC - Free, open-source, cross-platform multimedia player as well as framework that plays most multimedia files, DVDs, Audio CDs, VCDs and various streaming protocols. [ ](https://github.com/videolan/vlc) XLD - Tool to decode, convert and play various lossless audio files. [ ](https://code.google.com/archive/p/xld/source) HandBrake - Tool for converting video from nearly any format to a selection of modern, widely supported codecs. Playback - Experimental video player. ScreenFlow - Screencasting and video editing software. Shotcut - Free open-source video editor. Perian - (No longer under active development) ~~Let QuickTime play all the common formats of free plug-ins~~. Adapter - Free audio, video and image conversion software. Synfig Studio - Synfig Studio is free, open-source 2D animation software. Aegisub - Free, cross-platform open source tool for creating and modifying subtitles. Aegisub makes it quick and easy to time subtitles to audio, and features many powerful tools for styling them, including a built-in real-time video preview. iFFmpeg - Comprehensive Media Tool for macOS. Making High Quality Video Encoding Accessible for Everyone. Movie Catcher - Movie movie and online viewing offline download software, with Baidu cloud to make offline download and online playback. LyricsX - Lyrics for iTunes, Spotify and Vox. SpotMenu - Spotify and iTunes in your menu bar. Carol - A minimal and beautiful lyrics app for macOS. Download Management Tools aria2 - Lightweight multi-protocol & multi-source command-line download utility. Downie - Video downloader for macOS with support for YouTube and other 1200 sites. Free Download Manager - Powerful, modern download accelerator and organizer for Windows and Mac. (FREE) FOLX - Free download manager for Mac OS X with a true Mac-style interface. JDownloader - Free, open-source download management tool with a huge community of developers that makes downloading as easy and fast as it should be. qBittorrent - A project aims to provide an open-source software alternative to µTorrent. Transmission - Fast, easy, free BitTorrent Client. You-Get - Tiny command-line utility to download media contents (videos, audios, images) from the web. Cloud Storage I recommend using online storage with Mac clients Carbonite - Carbonite can protect your Mac from all of the most common forms of data loss.] Dropbox - File hosting service that offers cloud storage and file synchronization with collaborative edit features. Mega - Free cloud service, offers 50GB free storage. NextCloud - Actively maintained fork of ownCloud, faster and completely open-source ownCloud - Cloud storage. Seafile - Reliable and High Speed File Sync and Share. Input Methods Rocket - Makes typing emoji faster and easier using Slack-style shortcuts. Type2Phone - Use Your Mac as Keyboard for iPhone, iPad & Apple TV. Kawa - Better input source switcher for OS X. Browsers Brave - Web browser with an emphasis on privacy and speed. Chrome - Chrome, developed by Google Chromium - Open-source, free web browser project by Google, to provide the source code for Google Chrome. [ ](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/) Firefox - Meet Firefox Quantum. Fast, free, open-source web browser developed by the Mozilla Foundation. [ ](https://hg.mozilla.org/) Safari - Native browser for Macs. TorBrowser - Anonymity Online. Protect your privacy. Defend against network surveillance and traffic analysis. [ ](https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor-browser.git) Translation Tools (Or you could just use the Mac OS built-in dictionary) Grammarly - Refine your english iTranslate - Translate entire website instantly with its built-in browser or with iTranslate Safari extension into over 40 languages. Ludwig - Linguistic search engine that helps you to write better in English. Security Tools BlockBlock - Me: "Please alert me whenever anything is persistently installed." BlockBlock: "You got it" Dylib Hijack Scanner - Simple utility that will scan your computer for applications that are either susceptible to dylib hijacking or have been hijacked. stronghold - Easily configure MacOS security settings from the terminal. KextViewer - View all modules on that are loaded in the OS kernel. KnockKnock - See whats persistently installed on your Mac. LinkLiar - Link-Layer MAC spoofing GUI for macOS. LockDown - Open-source tool for El Capitan that audits and remediates security configuration settings. MalwareBytes - Malwarebytes crushes the growing threat of Mac malware, so you are protected and your machine keeps running silky smooth. Cybersecurity smart enough for the Mac. OverSight - Monitor mic and webcam, alerting you when the internal mic is activated, or whenever a process accesses the webcam. RansomWhere? - Generic Ransomware Detection. TaskExplorer - Explore all processes running on your Mac with TaskExplorer. Whats Your Sign? - Adds menu item to Finder.app to display the cryptographic signing information for any file. Proxy and VPN Tools Algo - Personal IPSEC VPN in the cloud. SpechtLite - Rule-based proxy app for macOS. ShadowsocksX - Secure socks5 proxy, designed to protect your internet traffic. [ ](https://github.com/shadowsocks/shadowsocks) ShadowsocksX-NG - Next generation of ShadowsocksX. [ ](https://github.com/qiuyuzhou/ShadowsocksX-NG) Lantern - Free application that delivers fast, reliable and secure access to the open internet. [ ](https://github.com/getlantern/lantern) Tunnelbear - Really simple VPN to browse the web privately & securely. Unblock websites around the world with applications for Mac, PC, iOS, Android & Chrome. Tunnelblick - Free, open-source graphic user interface for OpenVPN on OS X. Surge - Web developer tool and proxy utility for iOS 9. tinc - Secure mesh VPN software. Shimo - VPN Client for Mac. FreeVPN Plus - Free VPN Client for Mac. Utilities Clipboard Tools ClipMenu - Clipboard manager for Mac OS X. CopyQ - Clipboard Manager with Advanced Features. iPaste - Lightweight and efficient clipboard tool. Paste - Smart clipboard history & snippets manager. PasteBot - Powerful clipboard manager. Menu Bar Tools BeardedSpice - Allows you to control web based media players (SoundCloud, YouTube, etc) and some native apps with the media keys on Mac keyboards. BitBar - Place the output from any script or program right in your Mac OS X menu bar. iGlance - macOS System Monitor for the Status Bar. Itsycal - Tiny calendar for your Macs menu bar. [ ](https://github.com/sfsam/itsycal) Vanilla - Hide menu bar icons on your Mac. File Organization Tools BetterZip 3 - Archive tool supports ZIP, TAR, TGZ, TBZ, TXZ (new), 7-ZIP, RAR。 Hazel - Automated file organization for your Mac. Responsibly and beautifully designed. Keka - Free file archiver for macOS. Compression formats supported:7z, Zip, Tar, Gzip, Bzip2, DMG, ISO. Extraction formats supported: RAR, 7z, Lzma, xz, Zip, Tar, Gzip, Bzip2, ISO, EXE, CAB, PAX. muCommander - Lightweight file manager with a dual-pane interface. PDF Archiver - Nice tool for tagging and archiving tasks. The Unarchiver - Unarchive many different kinds of archive files. General Tools AirServer - Most advanced screen mirroring software receiver for Mac, PC and Xbox One. ControlPlane - Manages configuration profiles for your Mac. Determines where you are or what you are doing based on a number of available evidence sources and then automatically reconfigures your Mac based on your preferences. DNS Heaven - Unifies macOS DNS so applications using glibc can resolve DNS with the native stack. Mainly for use with VPNs. HTTrack - Useful tool for downloading a whole website and offline browsing. MacAssistant - Google Assistant for macOS Manta - Flexible invoicing desktop app with beautiful & customizable templates. Memo - Simple and elegant app. Unlock memos even more quickly using Touch ID. Numi - Beautiful calculator app for Mac. SlowQuitApps - An OS X app that adds a global delay of 1 second to the Cmd-Q shortcut. [ ](https://github.com/dteoh/SlowQuitApps) To-Do Lists 2Do - Nice todo app. Day-O 2 - Menu bar clock replacement with built-in calendar. Fantastical - The calendar app you wont be able to live without. Focus - Beautiful pomodoro-based time manager. OmniFocus - Nice GTD app, made by OmniGroups. OnyX - Multifunction utility to verify disks and files, run cleaning and system maintenance tasks, configure hidden options and more. Taskade - Real-time collaborative editor for teams. TaskPaper - Plain text to-do lists. Things - Delightful and easy to use task manager. (Award-winning App) Todoist - Cross-platform todo list app. Wunderlist - The easiest way to get stuff done. Productivity Alfred - Award-winning app which boosts efficiency with hotkeys, keywords, text expansion and more. Search your Mac and the web, and be more productive with custom actions to control your Mac. BetterTouchTool - Great, feature-packed app that allows you to configure many gestures for your Magic Mouse, Macbook Trackpad, Magic Trackpad and also Mouse Gestures for normal mice. Choosy - UI, URL API and a browser extension set for managing rules where and how to open links. Hammerspoon - Tool for powerful OSX automation with the Lua scripting engine. Karabiner - Powerful and stable keyboard customizer for OS X. [ ](https://github.com/tekezo/Karabiner) Keyboard Maestro - Automate routine actions based on triggers from keyboard, menu, location, added devices, and more. Keytty - App to keep your hands on the keyboard. Move, click, scroll, drag and more with a few strokes. Mos - Simple tool can offer the smooth scrolling and reverse the mouse scrolling direction on your Mac. Timing - Automatic time and productivity tracking for Mac. Helps you stay on track with your work and ensures no billable hours get lost if you are billing hourly. RescueTime - Personal analytics service that shows you how you spend your time and provides tools to help you be more productive. Qbserve - Time tracking automation: freelance project tracking, timesheets, invoicing & real-time productivity feedback. OmniPlan - The best way to visualize, maintain, and simplify your projects. Project Management made easy. SensibleSideButtons – Use the side buttons on your mouse to move forward and backward in many apps, like in Windows. Ukelele - Unicode Keyboard Layout Editor. xScope - Powerful set of tools that are ideal for measuring, inspecting & testing on-screen graphics and layouts. Window Management ShiftIt - Managing window size and position in OSX. Moom - Allows you to easily move and zoom windows, or to another display—using either the mouse or the keyboard. Divvy - Window management at its finest with its amazing Divvy Grid system. Slate - Window management application similar to Divvy and SizeUp (except better and free!). (Needs config file) [ ](https://github.com/jigish/slate) SizeUp - Powerful, keyboard-centric window management. Spectacle - Move and resize windows with simple and customizable keyboard shortcuts. Amethyst - Tiling window manager. [ ](https://github.com/ianyh/Amethyst) Magnet - Window manager that keeps your workspace organized. Total Spaces - Provides window managment much like ubuntu. Creates hotkeys for workspaces which allows you to easily move around. contexts - Provides more power than the native Mac Dock. Especially when you have multiple screens, it can help you switch more quickly. Password Management Authy - Two-factor authentication token manager that backs up and syncs across your devices. 1Password - Cross-platform password management tool. Dashlane - Cloud-based password manager with award-winning design. Keeweb - Free, cross-platform password manager compatible with KeePass. LastPass - Password management tool for Mac OS and browser. MacPass - Open-source KeePass Mac OS client. [ ](https://github.com/mstarke/MacPass) Finder Tools fman - The first dual-pane file manager to integrate features from Sublime Text. ForkLift - The most advanced dual pane file manager and file transfer client for macOS. Path Finder - File management app. Quicklook-Plugins - A list of useful "Quick Look" plugins for developers. TotalFinder - Chrome-styled Finder substitute. XtraFinder - Adds tabs and cut to Mac Finder. Quality of Life Improvements CheatSheet - Hold the ⌘-Key to get a list of all active shortcuts of the current application. Its as simple as that. f.lux - Makes the color of your computers display adapt to the time of day. KeyCastr - Open-source keystroke visualizer. Shifty - A macOS menu bar app that gives you more control over Night Shift. Snap - Launch an app in a snap. Ridiculously easy shortcut management. System Related Tools Amphetamine - Override your energy saver settings and keep your Mac awake. AppCleaner - Small application which allows you to thoroughly uninstall unwanted apps. Cleaner for Xcode - Helps make your Xcode faster by removing unwanted and deprecated files. Coolant - Menubar app that lets you know when an app is consuming 100% CPU or more than a gigabyte of memory (or any arbitrary limits you choose). DaisyDisk - Gives a great overview of disk usage. Can also make more disk-space available by cleaning up your disk. gfxCardStatus - Unobtrusive menu bar app for OS X that allows MacBook Pro users to see which apps are affecting their battery life by using the more power-hungry graphics. HandShaker - Mac on the management of Android mobile phone content. HTML5 Player - HTML 5 video player. Keep your Mac from "burning". InsomniaX - Disable either lid and/or idle sleep (so you can play music with your lid closed, for example). iStat Menus - Advanced Mac system monitor on the menubar. iStats - Command-line tool that allows you to easily grab the CPU temperature, fan speeds and battery information on OSX. [ ](https://github.com/Chris911/iStats) Juice - Make your battery information a bit more interesting. KeepingYouAwake - Alternative to Caffeine with better support for dark mode in Mac. Monity - System monitoring widget for OS X. Mounty - Tiny tool to re-mount write-protected NTFS volumes under Mac OS X 10.9+ in read-write mode. NitroShare - Cross-platform network file transfer utility. OmniDiskSweeper - Shows you the files on your drive, ordered by size. It can be used to find and remove unused files. Paragon NTFS - Read/write access to NTFS in macOS Sierra. Porting Kit - Install Windows® Games inside your Mac. SSH Tunnel - Application for managing SSH connections. TG Pro - Temperature monitoring, fan control & hardware diagnostics to help keep your Mac cool and healthy. Tuxera NTFS - Full read-write compatibility with NTFS-formatted drives on a Mac. Gaming Software OpenEmu - A great video game console emulator, supports many different emulators in a single application. (e.g. Sony PSP, GameBoy, NDS and so on) [ ](https://github.com/OpenEmu/OpenEmu) Remote Login Software AnyDesk - Provides Remote access across multiple machines. RealVNC - The original and best software for remote access across desktop and mobile. TeamViewer - Proprietary computer software package for remote control, desktop sharing, online meetings, web conferencing and file transfer between computers. QuickLook Plugins Using Homebrew Cask to install. List of useful Quick Look plugins for developers. If you install it manually, you can move the downloaded .qlgenerator file to ~ /Library/QuickLook and then $ qlmanage -r BetterZipQL - Preview the compressed format file for BetterZip software. brew cask install betterzipql ProvisionQL - Preview iOS / macOS app and provision information. brew cask install provisionql QLColorCode - Preview source code files with syntax highlighting. brew cask install qlcolorcode QLPrettyPatch - Preview .patch files. brew cask install qlprettypatch qlImageSize - Display image size and resolution. brew cask install qlimagesize QLMarkdown - Preview Markdown files. brew cask install qlmarkdown QLVideo - Preview most types of video files, as well as their thumbnails, cover art and metadata. brew cask install qlvideo QuickLookAPK - Preview Android APK files. brew cask install quicklookapk QuickLookASE - Preview Adobe ASE Color Swatches generated with Photoshop，Illustrator，Prisma among many others. brew cask install quicklookase QuickLookCSV - Preview CSV files. brew cask install quicklook-csv QuickLookJSON - Preview JSON files. brew cask install quicklook-json QuicklookStephen - Preview plain text files without or with unknown file extension. such as README、INSTALL、Capfile、CHANGELOG...brew cask install qlstephen quicklook-pat - Preview Adobe Photoshop pattern files. brew cask install quicklook-pat Suspicious Package - Preview the contents of a standard Apple installer package. brew cask install suspicious-package WebP - Preview WebP images. brew cask install webpquicklook Third Party App Markets If you come across websites offering pirated software or cracks, please post HERE. We love apps, but only authentic ones. :) Package Managers Here are some of the major software download sites, there are a number of OSX Mac software sites Homebrew - The missing package manager for macOS. Homebrew Cask - Command line installation manager which extends Homebrew and brings its elegance, simplicity, and speed to Mac OS applications and large binaries alike. MacPorts - Open-source community initiative to design an easy-to-use system for compiling, installing, and upgrading either command-line, X11 or Aqua based open-source software on the Mac OS X operating system. MacUpdate Desktop - Simplifies finding, buying and installing apps for your Mac. Mac App Download Sites Here are some of the major software download sites, there are a number of OSX Mac software sites Genuine Sites Slant - I personally recommend this. This is a platform where you can compare apps side-by-side, you might get an idea by seeing other users recommendations. Please contribute if you find an application from this list! alternativeTo - Also a very nice community. If you are looking for some alternative apps FOR Windows or another platform, check this site. Other sites like MacStories, LifeHacker, ProductHunt are great resources. Also, Quora, Reddit, you know the drill. MacUpdate：https://www.macupdate.com/ App Shopper：http://appshopper.com/ MacFlow：https://macflow.net/ Pirated software download site blacklist Refuse piracy from me. Software vendors can go to these places rights. AppKed：~~http://www.macbed.com~~ Softasm：~~https://softasm.com/~~ Podcasts Mac Power Users - Learn about getting the most from your Apple technology with focused topics and workflow guests. ⬆ back to top Contributors This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 Become a backer Sponsors Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. Become a sponsor License This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.