Jekyll Jekyll is a simple, blog-aware, static site generator perfect for personal, project, or organization sites. Think of it like a file-based CMS, without all the complexity. Jekyll takes your content, renders Markdown and Liquid templates, and spits out a complete, static website ready to be served by Apache, Nginx or another web server. Jekyll is the engine behind GitHub Pages, which you can use to host sites right from your GitHub repositories. Philosophy Jekyll does what you tell it to do — no more, no less. It doesnt try to outsmart users by making bold assumptions, nor does it burden them with needless complexity and configuration. Put simply, Jekyll gets out of your way and allows you to concentrate on what truly matters: your content. See: https://jekyllrb.com/philosophy Having trouble? See: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/troubleshooting/ Getting Started Install the gem Read up about its Usage and Configuration Take a gander at some existing Sites Fork and Contribute your own modifications Have questions? Check out our official forum community Jekyll Talk or #jekyll on irc.freenode.net Code of Conduct In order to have a more open and welcoming community, Jekyll adheres to a code of conduct adapted from the Ruby on Rails code of conduct. Please adhere to this code of conduct in any interactions you have in the Jekyll community. It is strictly enforced on all official Jekyll repositories, websites, and resources. If you encounter someone violating these terms, please let one of our core team members know and we will address it as soon as possible. Diving In Migrate from your previous system Learn how the YAML Front Matter works Put information on your site with Variables Customize the Permalinks your posts are generated with Use the built-in Liquid Extensions to make your life easier Use custom Plugins to generate content specific to your site License See the LICENSE file.