:warning: Deprecated :warning: This library is deprecated. Please read my blog post for details. More screenshots available at CocoaControls Features See the website for the list of features. Design Goals Closely mimic the iOS Messages style and behavior SOLID design Easy customization and extension for clients Dependencies JSQSystemSoundPlayer Requirements iOS 7.0+ ARC Installation CocoaPods (recommended) ````ruby For latest release in cocoapods pod JSQMessagesViewController Latest on develop pod JSQMessagesViewController, :git => https://github.com/jessesquires/JSQMessagesViewController.git, :branch => develop For version 5.3.2 pod JSQMessagesViewController, :git => https://github.com/jessesquires/JSQMessagesViewController, :branch => version_5.3.2_patch ```` Getting Started See the Getting Started guide! Questions & Help Review the FAQ. Search issues for previous and current questions. Do not open duplicates. StackOverflow is often the most appropriate place for questions and help. We have our own tag, jsqmessagesviewcontroller. See the Migration Guide for migrating between major versions of the library. Only ask questions that are specific to this library. Please avoid emailing questions. I prefer to keep questions and their answers open-source. Documentation Read the docs, available here via @CocoaDocs. Core team Jesse Squires (@jesse_squires) Harlan Haskans (@harlanhaskins) Eli Burke (@eliburke) Contributing Please follow these sweet contribution guidelines. Interested in becoming a core contributor with push access? See our onboarding guide for details. Donate Support the development of this free library! Donate via Square Cash. Credits Created and maintained by @jesse_squires. Many thanks to the contributors of this project. iOS assets extracted using @0xced / iOS-Artwork-Extractor. Apps using this library According to CocoaPods stats, over 36,000 apps are using JSQMessagesViewController. Here are the ones that we know about. Please submit a pull request to add your app! :smile: License JSQMessagesViewController is released under an MIT License. See LICENSE for details. Copyright © 2013-present Jesse Squires. Please provide attribution, it is greatly appreciated.