Bulma Bulma is a modern CSS framework based on Flexbox. Quick install Bulma is constantly in development! Try it out now: NPM sh npm install bulma or Yarn sh yarn add bulma Bower sh bower install bulma Import After installation, you can import the CSS file into your project using this snippet: sh import bulma/css/bulma.css CDN https://cdnjs.com/libraries/bulma Feel free to raise an issue or submit a pull request. CSS only Bulma is a CSS framework. As such, the sole output is a single CSS file: bulma.css You can either use that file, "out of the box", or download the Sass source files to customize the variables. There is no JavaScript included. People generally want to use their own JS implementation (and usually already have one). Bulma can be considered "environment agnostic": its just the style layer on top of the logic. Browser Support Bulma uses autoprefixer to make (most) Flexbox features compatible with earlier browser versions. According to Can I use, Bulma is compatible with recent versions of: Chrome Edge Firefox Opera Safari Internet Explorer (10+) is only partially supported. Documentation The documentation resides in the docs directory, and is built with the Ruby-based Jekyll tool. Browse the online documentation here. Related projects | Project | Description | |------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------| | Bulma with Attribute Modules | Adds support for attribute-based selectors. | | Bulma with Rails | Integrates Bulma with the rails asset pipeline | | Vue Admin | Vue Admin framework powered by Bulma | | Bulmaswatch | Free themes for Bulma | | Goldfish | Vault UI with Bulma, Golang, and Vue Admin | | ember-bulma | Ember addon providing a collection of UI components for Bulma | | Bloomer | A set of React components for Bulma | | Re-bulma | Bulma components build with React | | React-bulma | React.js components for Bulma | | Buefy | Lightweight UI components for Vue.js based on Bulma | | vue-bulma-components | Bulma components for Vue.js with straightforward syntax | | BulmaJS | Javascript integration for Bulma. Written in ES6 with a data-* API | | Bulma-modal-fx | A set of modal window effects with CSS transitions and animations for Bulma | | Bulma.styl | 1:1 Stylus translation of Bulma | | elm-bulma | Bulma + Elm | | elm-bulma-classes | Bulma classes prepared for usage with Elm | | Bulma Customizer | Bulma Customizer – Create your own bespoke Bulma build | | Fulma | Wrapper around Bulma for fable-react | | Laravel Enso | SPA Admin Panel built with Bulma, VueJS and Laravel | | Django Bulma | Integrates Bulma with Django | | Bulma Templates | Free Templates for Bulma | | React Bulma Components | Another React wrap on React for Bulma.io | | purescript-bulma | PureScript bindings for Bulma | | Vue Datatable | Bulma themed datatable based on Vue, Laravel & JSON templates | | bulma-fluent | Fluent Design Theme for Bulma inspired by Microsofts Fluent Design System | Copyright and license Code copyright 2018 Jeremy Thomas. Code released under the MIT license.