jsoup: Java HTML Parser jsoup is a Java library for working with real-world HTML. It provides a very convenient API for extracting and manipulating data, using the best of DOM, CSS, and jquery-like methods. jsoup implements the WHATWG HTML5 specification, and parses HTML to the same DOM as modern browsers do. scrape and parse HTML from a URL, file, or string find and extract data, using DOM traversal or CSS selectors manipulate the HTML elements, attributes, and text clean user-submitted content against a safe white-list, to prevent XSS attacks output tidy HTML jsoup is designed to deal with all varieties of HTML found in the wild; from pristine and validating, to invalid tag-soup; jsoup will create a sensible parse tree. See jsoup.org for downloads and the full API documentation. Example Fetch the Wikipedia homepage, parse it to a DOM, and select the headlines from the In the News section into a list of Elements: java Document doc = Jsoup.connect("http://en.wikipedia.org/").get(); log(doc.title()); Elements newsHeadlines = doc.select("#mp-itn b a"); for (Element headline : newsHeadlines) { log("%s\n\t%s", headline.attr("title"), headline.absUrl("href")); } Online sample, full source. Open source jsoup is an open source project distributed under the liberal MIT license. The source code is available at GitHub. Getting started Download the latest jsoup jar (or add it to your Maven/Gradle build) Read the cookbook Enjoy! Development and support If you have any questions on how to use jsoup, or have ideas for future development, please get in touch via the mailing list. If you find any issues, please file a bug after checking for duplicates. The colophon talks about the history of and tools used to build jsoup. Status jsoup is in general, stable release.