Nativefier You want to make a native wrapper for WhatsApp Web (or any web page). bash nativefier web.whatsapp.com Youre done. Table of Contents Installation Usage Optional Dependencies How It Works API Documentation Changelog Development License Introduction Nativefier is a command line tool that allows you to easily create a desktop application for any web site with succinct and minimal configuration. Apps are wrapped by Electron in an OS executable (.app, .exe, etc.) for use on Windows, macOS and Linux. I did this because I was tired of having to ⌘-tab or alt-tab to my browser and then search through the numerous open tabs when I was using Facebook Messenger or Whatsapp Web. View the changelog here. Relevant Hacker News Thread Features Automatically retrieves the correct icon and app name Flash Support (with --flash flag) Javascript and CSS injection Installation Requirements macOS 10.9+ / Windows / Linux Node.js >=4 bash npm install nativefier -g See optional dependencies for more. Usage Creating a native desktop app for medium.com: bash nativefier "http://medium.com" Nativefier will intelligently attempt to determine the app name, your OS and processor architecture, among other options. If desired, the app name or other options can be overwritten by specifying the --name "Medium" as part of the command line options, as such. bash nativefier --name "Some Awesome App" "http://medium.com" Read the API documentation for other command line flags and options that can be used to configure the packaged app. If you would like high resolution icons to be used, please contribute to the icon repository! For Windows Users: Take note that the application menu is automatically hidden by default, you can press alt on your keyboard to access it. For Linux Users: Do not put spaces if you define the app name yourself with --name, as this will cause problems (tested on Ubuntu 14.04) when pinning a packaged app to the launcher. Optional Dependencies Icons for Windows Apps from non-Windows platforms You need Wine installed, make sure that wine is in your $PATH. Icon Conversion for macOS To support conversion of a .png or .ico into a .icns for a packaged macOS app icon (currently only supported on macOS), you need the following dependencies. iconutil You need Xcode installed. imagemagick Make sure convert and identify are in your $PATH. If the tools are not found then nativefier will fallback on using the built-in macOS tool sips to perform the conversion. Flash Google Chrome Google Chrome is required for flash to be supported. Alternatively, you could download the PepperFlash Chrome plugin and specify the path to it directly with the --flash flag. See the command line options below for more details. How It Works A template app with the appropriate event listeners and callbacks set up is included in the ./app folder. When the nativefier command is executed, this folder is copied to a temporary directory with the appropriate parameters in a configuration file, and is packaged into an app with Electron Packager. In addition, I built GitCloud to use GitHub as an icon index, and also the pageIcon fallback to infer a relevant icon from a url. API Documentation See API. Changelog See Changelog. Development See Development. Docker Image The Dockerfile is designed to be used like the "normal" nativefier app. By default, the command nativefier --help will be executed. Before you can use the image you have to build it like follow: docker build -t local/nativefier . After that, you can build your first nativefier app to the local $TARGET-PATH. Ensure you have write access to the $TARGET-PATH: docker run -v $TARGET-PATH:/target local/nativefier https://my-web-app.com/ /target/ You can also pass nativefier flags, and mount additional volumes to provide local files. For example, to use a icon: docker run -v $PATH_TO_ICON/:/src -v $TARGET-PATH:/target local/nativefier --icon /src/icon.png --name whatsApp -p linux -a x64 https://my-web-app.com/ /target/ License MIT