jQuery UI - Interactions and Widgets for the web jQuery UI is a curated set of user interface interactions, effects, widgets, and themes built on top of jQuery. Whether youre building highly interactive web applications, or you just need to add a date picker to a form control, jQuery UI is the perfect choice. If you want to use jQuery UI, go to jqueryui.com to get started, jqueryui.com/demos/ for demos, api.jqueryui.com for API documentation, or the Using jQuery UI Forum for discussions and questions. If you want to report a bug/issue, please visit bugs.jqueryui.com. If you are interested in helping develop jQuery UI, you are in the right place. To discuss development with team members and the community, visit the Developing jQuery UI Forum or #jqueryui-dev on irc.freenode.net. For Contributors If you want to help and provide a patch for a bugfix or new feature, please take a few minutes and look at our Getting Involved guide. In particular check out the Coding standards and Commit Message Style Guide. In general, fork the project, create a branch for a specific change and send a pull request for that branch. Dont mix unrelated changes. You can use the commit message as the description for the pull request. For more information, see the contributing page. Running the Unit Tests Run the unit tests manually with appropriate browsers and any local web server. See our environment setup and information on running tests. You can also run the unit tests inside phantomjs by setting up your environment.