JavaScript Cookie A simple, lightweight JavaScript API for handling cookies Works in all browsers Accepts any character Heavily tested No dependency Unobtrusive JSON support Supports AMD/CommonJS RFC 6265 compliant Useful Wiki Enable custom encoding/decoding ~900 bytes gzipped! If youre viewing this at https://github.com/js-cookie/js-cookie, youre reading the documentation for the master branch. View documentation for the latest release. Build Status Matrix (including active Pull Requests) Installation Direct download Download the script here and include it (unless you are packaging scripts somehow else): html <script src="/path/to/js.cookie.js"></script> Or include it via jsDelivr CDN: html <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/js-cookie@2/src/js.cookie.min.js"></script> Do not include the script directly from GitHub (http://raw.github.com/...). The file is being served as text/plain and as such being blocked in Internet Explorer on Windows 7 for instance (because of the wrong MIME type). Bottom line: GitHub is not a CDN. Package Managers JavaScript Cookie supports npm and Bower under the name js-cookie. NPM $ npm install js-cookie --save Module Loaders JavaScript Cookie can also be loaded as an AMD or CommonJS module. Basic Usage Create a cookie, valid across the entire site: javascript Cookies.set(name, value); Create a cookie that expires 7 days from now, valid across the entire site: javascript Cookies.set(name, value, { expires: 7 }); Create an expiring cookie, valid to the path of the current page: javascript Cookies.set(name, value, { expires: 7, path: }); Read cookie: javascript Cookies.get(name); // => value Cookies.get(nothing); // => undefined Read all visible cookies: javascript Cookies.get(); // => { name: value } Note: It is not possible to read a particular cookie by passing one of the cookie attributes (which may or may not have been used when writing the cookie in question): javascript Cookies.get(foo, { domain: sub.example.com }); // `domain` wont have any effect...! The cookie with the name foo will only be available on .get() if its visible from where the code is called; the domain and/or path attribute will not have an effect when reading. Delete cookie: javascript Cookies.remove(name); Delete a cookie valid to the path of the current page: javascript Cookies.set(name, value, { path: }); Cookies.remove(name); // fail! Cookies.remove(name, { path: }); // removed! IMPORTANT! When deleting a cookie, you must pass the exact same path and domain attributes that were used to set the cookie, unless youre relying on the default attributes. Note: Removing a nonexistent cookie does not raise any exception nor return any value. Namespace conflicts If there is any danger of a conflict with the namespace Cookies, the noConflict method will allow you to define a new namespace and preserve the original one. This is especially useful when running the script on third party sites e.g. as part of a widget or SDK. javascript // Assign the js-cookie api to a different variable and restore the original "window.Cookies" var Cookies2 = Cookies.noConflict(); Cookies2.set(name, value); Note: The .noConflict method is not necessary when using AMD or CommonJS, thus it is not exposed in those environments. JSON js-cookie provides unobtrusive JSON storage for cookies. When creating a cookie you can pass an Array or Object Literal instead of a string in the value. If you do so, js-cookie will store the string representation of the object according to JSON.stringify: javascript Cookies.set(name, { foo: bar }); When reading a cookie with the default Cookies.get api, you receive the string representation stored in the cookie: javascript Cookies.get(name); // => {"foo":"bar"} javascript Cookies.get(); // => { name: {"foo":"bar"} } When reading a cookie with the Cookies.getJSON api, you receive the parsed representation of the string stored in the cookie according to JSON.parse: javascript Cookies.getJSON(name); // => { foo: bar } javascript Cookies.getJSON(); // => { name: { foo: bar } } Note: To support IE6-7 (and IE 8 compatibility mode) you need to include the JSON-js polyfill: https://github.com/douglascrockford/JSON-js Encoding This project is RFC 6265 compliant. All special characters that are not allowed in the cookie-name or cookie-value are encoded with each ones UTF-8 Hex equivalent using percent-encoding. The only character in cookie-name or cookie-value that is allowed and still encoded is the percent % character, it is escaped in order to interpret percent input as literal. Please note that the default encoding/decoding strategy is meant to be interoperable only between cookies that are read/written by js-cookie. To override the default encoding/decoding strategy you need to use a converter. Cookie Attributes Cookie attributes defaults can be set globally by setting properties of the Cookies.defaults object or individually for each call to Cookies.set(...) by passing a plain object in the last argument. Per-call attributes override the default attributes. expires Define when the cookie will be removed. Value can be a Number which will be interpreted as days from time of creation or a Date instance. If omitted, the cookie becomes a session cookie. To create a cookie that expires in less than a day, you can check the FAQ on the Wiki. Default: Cookie is removed when the user closes the browser. Examples: javascript Cookies.set(name, value, { expires: 365 }); Cookies.get(name); // => value Cookies.remove(name); path A String indicating the path where the cookie is visible. Default: / Examples: javascript Cookies.set(name, value, { path: }); Cookies.get(name); // => value Cookies.remove(name, { path: }); Note regarding Internet Explorer: Due to an obscure bug in the underlying WinINET InternetGetCookie implementation, IEs document.cookie will not return a cookie if it was set with a path attribute containing a filename. (From Internet Explorer Cookie Internals (FAQ)) This means one cannot set a path using window.location.pathname in case such pathname contains a filename like so: /check.html (or at least, such cookie cannot be read correctly). In fact, you should never allow untrusted input to set the cookie attributes or you might be exposed to a XSS attack. domain A String indicating a valid domain where the cookie should be visible. The cookie will also be visible to all subdomains. Default: Cookie is visible only to the domain or subdomain of the page where the cookie was created, except for Internet Explorer (see below). Examples: Assuming a cookie that is being created on site.com: javascript Cookies.set(name, value, { domain: subdomain.site.com }); Cookies.get(name); // => undefined (need to read at subdomain.site.com) Note regarding Internet Explorer default behavior: Q3: If I dont specify a DOMAIN attribute (for) a cookie, IE sends it to all nested subdomains anyway? A: Yes, a cookie set on example.com will be sent to sub2.sub1.example.com. Internet Explorer differs from other browsers in this regard. (From Internet Explorer Cookie Internals (FAQ)) This means that if you omit the domain attribute, it will be visible for a subdomain in IE. secure Either true or false, indicating if the cookie transmission requires a secure protocol (https). Default: No secure protocol requirement. Examples: javascript Cookies.set(name, value, { secure: true }); Cookies.get(name); // => value Cookies.remove(name); Converters Read Create a new instance of the api that overrides the default decoding implementation. All get methods that rely in a proper decoding to work, such as Cookies.get() and Cookies.get(name), will run the converter first for each cookie. The returning String will be used as the cookie value. Example from reading one of the cookies that can only be decoded using the escape function: javascript document.cookie = escaped=%u5317; document.cookie = default=%E5%8C%97; var cookies = Cookies.withConverter(function (value, name) { if ( name === escaped ) { return unescape(value); } }); cookies.get(escaped); // 北 cookies.get(default); // 北 cookies.get(); // { escaped: 北, default: 北 } Write Create a new instance of the api that overrides the default encoding implementation: javascript Cookies.withConverter({ read: function (value, name) { // Read converter }, write: function (value, name) { // Write converter } }); Server-side integration Check out the Servers Docs Contributing Check out the Contributing Guidelines Security For vulnerability reports, send an e-mail to jscookieproject at gmail dot com Manual release steps Increment the "version" attribute of package.json Increment the version number in the src/js.cookie.js file If major bump, update jsDelivr CDN major version link on README Commit with the message "Release version x.x.x" Create version tag in git Create a github release and upload the minified file Change the latest tag pointer to the latest commit git tag -f latest git push <remote> :refs/tags/latest git push origin master --tags Release on npm Authors Klaus Hartl Fagner Brack And awesome contributors