JSHint, A Static Code Analysis Tool for JavaScript [ Use it online • Docs • FAQ • Install • Contribute • Blog • Twitter ] JSHint is a community-driven tool that detects errors and potential problems in JavaScript code. Since JSHint is so flexible, you can easily adjust it in the environment you expect your code to execute. JSHint is open source and will always stay this way. Our goal The project aims to help JavaScript developers write complex programs without worrying about typos and language gotchas. Any code base eventually becomes huge at some point, so simple mistakes — that would not show themselves when written — can become show stoppers and add extra hours of debugging. So, static code analysis tools come into play and help developers spot such problems. JSHint scans a program written in JavaScript and reports about commonly made mistakes and potential bugs. The potential problem could be a syntax error, a bug due to an implicit type conversion, a leaking variable, or something else entirely. Only 15% of all programs linted on jshint.com pass the JSHint checks. In all other cases, JSHint finds some red flags that couldve been bugs or potential problems. Please note, that while static code analysis tools can spot many different kind of mistakes, it cant detect if your program is correct, fast or has memory leaks. You should always combine tools like JSHint with unit and functional tests as well as with code reviews. Reporting a bug To report a bug simply create a new GitHub Issue and describe your problem or suggestion. We welcome all kinds of feedback regarding JSHint including but not limited to: When JSHint doesnt work as expected When JSHint complains about valid JavaScript code that works in all browsers When you simply want a new option or feature Before reporting a bug, please look around to see if there are any open or closed tickets that discuss your issue, and remember the wisdom: pull request > bug report > tweet. Who uses JSHint? Engineers from these companies and projects use JSHint: Mozilla Wikipedia Facebook Twitter Bootstrap Disqus Medium Yahoo! SmugMug jQuery PDF.js Coursera Adobe Brackets Apache Cordova RedHat SoundCloud Nodejitsu Yelp Voxer EnyoJS QuickenLoans Cloud9 CodeClimate Zendesk Apache CouchDB Google Codacy ref And many more! License Most files are published using the standard MIT Expat license. One file, however, is provided under a slightly modified version of that license. The so-called JSON license is a non-free license, and unfortunately, we cant change it due to historical reasons. This license is included as an in-line within the file it concerns. The JSHint Team JSHint is currently maintained by Rick Waldron, Caitlin Potter, Mike Pennisi, and Luke Page. You can reach them via admin@jshint.org. Previous Maintainers Originating from the JSLint project in 2010, JSHint has been maintained by a number of dedicated individuals. In chronological order, they are: Douglas Crockford, Anton Kovalyov, and Mike Sherov. We appreciate their long-term commitment! Thank you! We really appreciate all kinds of feedback and contributions. Thanks for using and supporting JSHint!