A minimalist Vim plugin manager. Pros. Easier to setup: Single file. No boilerplate code required. Easier to use: Concise, intuitive syntax Super-fast parallel installation/update (with any of +job, +python, +python3, +ruby, or Neovim) Creates shallow clones to minimize disk space usage and download time On-demand loading for faster startup time Can review and rollback updates Branch/tag/commit support Post-update hooks Support for externally managed plugins Installation Download plug.vim and put it in the "autoload" directory. Vim Unix sh curl -fLo ~/.vim/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim You can automate the process by putting the command in your Vim configuration file as suggested here. Windows (PowerShell) powershell md ~\vimfiles\autoload $uri = https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadFile( $uri, $ExecutionContext.SessionState.Path.GetUnresolvedProviderPathFromPSPath( "~\vimfiles\autoload\plug.vim" ) ) Neovim Unix sh curl -fLo ~/.local/share/nvim/site/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim Windows (PowerShell) powershell md ~\AppData\Local\nvim\autoload $uri = https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadFile( $uri, $ExecutionContext.SessionState.Path.GetUnresolvedProviderPathFromPSPath( "~\AppData\Local\nvim\autoload\plug.vim" ) ) Getting Help See tutorial page to learn the basics of vim-plug See tips and FAQ pages for common problems and questions See requirements page for debugging information & tested configurations Create an issue Usage Add a vim-plug section to your ~/.vimrc (or ~/.config/nvim/init.vim for Neovim): Begin the section with call plug#begin() List the plugins with Plug commands call plug#end() to update &runtimepath and initialize plugin system Automatically executes filetype plugin indent on and syntax enable. You can revert the settings after the call. e.g. filetype indent off, syntax off, etc. Example ```vim " Specify a directory for plugins " - For Neovim: ~/.local/share/nvim/plugged " - Avoid using standard Vim directory names like plugin call plug#begin(~/.vim/plugged) " Make sure you use single quotes " Shorthand notation; fetches https://github.com/junegunn/vim-easy-align Plug junegunn/vim-easy-align " Any valid git URL is allowed Plug https://github.com/junegunn/vim-github-dashboard.git " Multiple Plug commands can be written in a single line using | separators Plug SirVer/ultisnips | Plug honza/vim-snippets " On-demand loading Plug scrooloose/nerdtree, { on: NERDTreeToggle } Plug tpope/vim-fireplace, { for: clojure } " Using a non-master branch Plug rdnetto/YCM-Generator, { branch: stable } " Using a tagged release; wildcard allowed (requires git 1.9.2 or above) Plug fatih/vim-go, { tag: * } " Plugin options Plug nsf/gocode, { tag: v.20150303, rtp: vim } " Plugin outside ~/.vim/plugged with post-update hook Plug junegunn/fzf, { dir: ~/.fzf, do: ./install --all } " Unmanaged plugin (manually installed and updated) Plug ~/my-prototype-plugin " Initialize plugin system call plug#end() ``` Reload .vimrc and :PlugInstall to install plugins. Commands | Command | Description | | ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | | PlugInstall [name ...] [#threads] | Install plugins | | PlugUpdate [name ...] [#threads] | Install or update plugins | | PlugClean[!] | Remove unused directories (bang version will clean without prompt) | | PlugUpgrade | Upgrade vim-plug itself | | PlugStatus | Check the status of plugins | | PlugDiff | Examine changes from the previous update and the pending changes | | PlugSnapshot[!] [output path] | Generate script for restoring the current snapshot of the plugins | Plug options | Option | Description | | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | | branch/tag/commit | Branch/tag/commit of the repository to use | | rtp | Subdirectory that contains Vim plugin | | dir | Custom directory for the plugin | | as | Use different name for the plugin | | do | Post-update hook (string or funcref) | | on | On-demand loading: Commands or <Plug>-mappings | | for | On-demand loading: File types | | frozen | Do not update unless explicitly specified | Global options | Flag | Default | Description | | ------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | | g:plug_threads | 16 | Default number of threads to use | | g:plug_timeout | 60 | Time limit of each task in seconds (Ruby & Python) | | g:plug_retries | 2 | Number of retries in case of timeout (Ruby & Python) | | g:plug_shallow | 1 | Use shallow clone | | g:plug_window | vertical topleft new | Command to open plug window | | g:plug_pwindow | above 12new | Command to open preview window in PlugDiff | | g:plug_url_format | https://git::@github.com/%s.git | printf format to build repo URL (Only applies to the subsequent Plug commands) | Keybindings D - PlugDiff S - PlugStatus R - Retry failed update or installation tasks U - Update plugins in the selected range q - Close the window :PlugStatus L - Load plugin :PlugDiff X - Revert the update Example: A small sensible Vim configuration vim call plug#begin() Plug tpope/vim-sensible call plug#end() On-demand loading of plugins ```vim " NERD tree will be loaded on the first invocation of NERDTreeToggle command Plug scrooloose/nerdtree, { on: NERDTreeToggle } " Multiple commands Plug junegunn/vim-github-dashboard, { on: [GHDashboard, GHActivity] } " Loaded when clojure file is opened Plug tpope/vim-fireplace, { for: clojure } " Multiple file types Plug kovisoft/paredit, { for: [clojure, scheme] } " On-demand loading on both conditions Plug junegunn/vader.vim, { on: Vader, for: vader } " Code to execute when the plugin is lazily loaded on demand Plug junegunn/goyo.vim, { for: markdown } autocmd! User goyo.vim echom Goyo is now loaded! ``` for option is generally not needed as most plugins for specific file types usually dont have too much code in plugin directory. You might want to examine the output of vim --startuptime before applying the option. Post-update hooks There are some plugins that require extra steps after installation or update. In that case, use do option to describe the task to be performed. vim Plug Shougo/vimproc.vim, { do: make } Plug Valloric/YouCompleteMe, { do: ./install.py } If the value starts with :, it will be recognized as a Vim command. vim Plug fatih/vim-go, { do: :GoInstallBinaries } If you need more control, you can pass a reference to a Vim function that takes a single argument. ```vim function! BuildYCM(info) " info is a dictionary with 3 fields " - name: name of the plugin " - status: installed, updated, or unchanged " - force: set on PlugInstall! or PlugUpdate! if a:info.status == installed || a:info.force !./install.py endif endfunction Plug Valloric/YouCompleteMe, { do: function(BuildYCM) } ``` Both forms of post-update hook are executed inside the directory of the plugin and only run when the repository has changed, but you can force it to run unconditionally with the bang-versions of the commands: PlugInstall! and PlugUpdate!. Make sure to escape BARs and double-quotes when you write do option inline as they are mistakenly recognized as command separator or the start of the trailing comment. vim Plug junegunn/fzf, { do: yes \| ./install } But you can avoid the escaping if you extract the inline specification using a variable (or any Vimscript expression) as follows: vim let g:fzf_install = yes | ./install Plug junegunn/fzf, { do: g:fzf_install } PlugInstall! and PlugUpdate! The installer takes the following steps when installing/updating a plugin: git clone or git fetch from its origin Check out branch, tag, or commit and optionally git merge remote branch If the plugin was updated (or installed for the first time) Update submodules Execute post-update hooks The commands with ! suffix ensure that all steps are run unconditionally. Articles Writing my own Vim plugin manager Vim plugins and startup time ~~Thoughts on Vim plugin dependency~~ Support for Plugfile has been removed since 0.5.0 License MIT