JVFloatLabeledTextField JVFloatLabeledTextField is the first implementation of a UX pattern that has come to be known the "Float Label Pattern". Due to space constraints on mobile devices, it is common to rely solely on placeholders as a means to label fields. This presents a UX problem, in that, once the user begins to fill out a form, no labels are present. This UI component library, which includes both a UITextField and UITextView subclass, aims to improve the user experience by having placeholders transition into floating labels that hover above the fields after they are populated with text. Credits for the concept to Matt D. Smith (@mds), and his original design: The component is officially supported for iOS 7 and greater. Getting started via CocoaPods sudo gem install cocoapods Create a Podfile in your project directory: pod init Add the following to your Podfile projects target: pod JVFloatLabeledTextField Then run CocoaPods with pod install. Finally, include JVFloatLabeledTextField.h and JVFloatLabeledTextView.h in your project. Getting started via Carthage brew update brew install carthage Create a Cartfile in your project directory that contains: github "jverdi/JVFloatLabeledTextField" Then run carthage with carthage update and add JVFloatLabeledText.framework to your project from the Carthage/Build/iOS directory. Finally, include JVFloatLabeledText.h in your project: ``` import ``` Additional References How the Float Label Pattern Started - Matt D. Smith Float Label Pattern - Brad Frost Material Design - Floating Labels - Google Ports and Alternate Implementations Android - Henrik Sandström Android - Kaushik Gopal Android - Kevin Johnson Xamarin.iOS - Greg Shackles Xamarin.Android - Johan du Toit CSS Jonathan Snook JQuery / Zepto.js - Achmad Mahardi JQuery - Mike Mitchell AngularJS - Dave Ackerman Bootstrap plugin - Matt Powell JavaFX - Andy Till Swift - Dirk Fabisch Swift - Fahim Farook Swift - Neeraj Kumar Swift - Jimmy Jose Swift - Skyscanner (Daniel Langh, Gergely Orosz, Raimon Lapuente) ObjC - Arthur Ariel Sabintsev ObjC - Rob Phillips 4D - Maurice Inzirillo Appcelerator Titanium - The Smiths B4i - Erel Uziel Added a port? Let me know - @jverdi