Alacritty Alacritty is the fastest terminal emulator in existence. Using the GPU for rendering enables optimizations that simply arent possible in other emulators. Alacritty currently supports FreeBSD, Linux, macOS, and OpenBSD. Windows support is planned before the 1.0 release. About Alacritty is focused on simplicity and performance. The performance goal means it should be faster than any other terminal emulator available. The simplicity goal means that it doesnt have features such as tabs or splits (which can be better provided by a window manager or terminal multiplexer) nor niceties like a GUI config editor. The software is considered to be at an alpha level of readiness--there are missing features and bugs to be fixed, but it is already used by many as a daily driver. Precompiled binaries will eventually be made available on supported platforms. This is minimally blocked on a stable config format. For now, Alacritty must be built from source. Further information Announcing Alacritty, a GPU-Accelerated Terminal Emulator January 6, 2017 A short talk about Alacritty at the Rust Meetup January 2017 (starts at 57:00) Installation Instructions are provided for macOS and many Linux variants to compile Alacritty from source. With the exception of Arch (which has a package in the AUR), Void Linux (in main repository) and NixOS, please first read the prerequisites section, then find the section for your OS, and finally go to building and configuration. Arch Linux sh git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/alacritty-git.git cd alacritty-git makepkg -isr openSUSE Tumbleweed Linux sh zypper in alacritty Void Linux sh xbps-install alacritty Manual Installation Prerequisites Alacritty requires the most recent stable Rust compiler; it can be installed with rustup. Installing Rust compiler with rustup Install rustup.rs. Clone the source code: sh git clone https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty.git cd alacritty Make sure you have the right Rust compiler installed. Run sh rustup override set stable rustup update stable Ubuntu On Ubuntu, you need a few extra libraries to build Alacritty. Heres an apt command that should install all of them. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh apt-get install cmake libfreetype6-dev libfontconfig1-dev xclip Arch Linux On Arch Linux, you need a few extra libraries to build Alacritty. Heres a pacman command that should install all of them. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh pacman -S cmake freetype2 fontconfig pkg-config make xclip Fedora On Fedora, you need a few extra libraries to build Alacritty. Heres a dnf command that should install all of them. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh dnf install cmake freetype-devel fontconfig-devel xclip CentOS/RHEL 7 On CentOS/RHEL 7, you need a few extra libraries to build Alacritty. Heres a yum command that should install all of them. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh yum install cmake freetype-devel fontconfig-devel xclip yum group install "Development Tools" openSUSE On openSUSE, you need a few extra libraries to build Alacritty. Heres a zypper command that should install all of them. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh zypper install cmake freetype-devel fontconfig-devel xclip Slackware Compiles out of the box for 14.2 For copy & paste support (middle mouse button) you need to install xclip https://slackbuilds.org/repository/14.2/misc/xclip/?search=xclip Void Linux On Void Linux, install following packages before compiling Alacritty: sh xbps-install cmake freetype-devel freetype expat-devel fontconfig xclip FreeBSD On FreeBSD, you need a few extra libraries to build Alacritty. Heres a pkg command that should install all of them. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh pkg install cmake freetype2 fontconfig xclip pkgconf OpenBSD Alacritty builds on OpenBSD 6.3 almost out-of-the-box if Rust and Xenocara are installed. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh pkg_add rust Solus On Solus, you need a few extra libraries to build Alacritty. Heres a eopkg command that should install all of them. If something is still found to be missing, please open an issue. sh sudo eopkg install fontconfig-devel NixOS/Nixpkgs The following command can be used to get a shell with all development dependencies on NixOS. sh nix-shell -A alacritty <nixpkgs> Gentoo On Gentoo, theres a portage overlay available. Make sure layman is installed and run: sh sudo layman -a slyfox Then, add x11-terms/alacritty ** to /etc/portage/package.accept_keywords and emerge alacritty: sh sudo emerge alacritty It might be handy to mask all other packages provided in the slyfox overlay by adding */*::slyfox to /etc/portage/package.mask and adding x11-terms/alacritty::slyfox to /etc/portage/package.unmask. Cargo If you have a rust toolchain setup you can install Alacritty via cargo: sh cargo install --git https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty Note that you still need to download system build dependencies via your package manager as mentioned above. The binary alacritty will be placed into $HOME/.cargo/bin. Make sure it is in your path (default if you use rustup). Other If you build Alacritty on another distribution, we would love some help filling in this section of the README. Building BEFORE YOU RUN IT: Install the config file as described below; otherwise, many things (such as arrow keys) will not work. Linux Once all the prerequisites are installed, compiling Alacritty should be easy: sh cargo build --release If all goes well, this should place a binary at target/release/alacritty. Desktop Entry Many linux distributions support desktop entries for adding applications to system menus. To install the desktop entry for Alacritty, run sh sudo cp target/release/alacritty /usr/local/bin # or anywhere else in $PATH sudo desktop-file-install alacritty.desktop sudo update-desktop-database MacOS To build an application for macOS, run sh make app cp -r target/release/osx/Alacritty.app /Applications/ Manual Page Installing the manual page requires the additional dependency gzip. To install the manual page, run sh sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/share/man/man1 gzip -c alacritty.man | sudo tee /usr/local/share/man/man1/alacritty.1.gz > /dev/null Shell completions To get automatic completions for alacrittys flags and arguments you can install the provided shell completions. Zsh To install the completions for zsh, run sudo cp alacritty-completions.zsh /usr/share/zsh/functions/Completion/X/_alacritty Bash To install the completions for bash, you can source the alacritty-completions.bash in your ~/.bashrc file. If you do not plan to delete the source folder of alacritty, you can run sh echo "source $(pwd)/alacritty-completions.bash" >> ~/.bashrc Otherwise you can copy it to the ~/.bash_completion folder and source it from there: sh mkdir -p ~/.bash_completion cp alacritty-completions.bash ~/.bash_completion/alacritty echo "source ~/.bash_completion/alacritty" >> ~/.bashrc Fish To install the completions for fish, run sudo cp alacritty-completions.fish $__fish_datadir/vendor_completions.d/alacritty.fish Configuration Although its possible the default configuration would work on your system, youll probably end up wanting to customize it anyhow. There is a default alacritty.yml and alacritty_macos.yml at the git repository root for Linux and macOS respectively. Alacritty looks for the configuration file at the following paths: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/alacritty/alacritty.yml $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/alacritty.yml $HOME/.config/alacritty/alacritty.yml $HOME/.alacritty.yml If none of these paths are found then $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/alacritty/alacritty.yml is created once alacritty is first run. On most systems this often defaults to $HOME/.config/alacritty/alacritty.yml. Many configuration options will take effect immediately upon saving changes to the config file. The only exception is the font and dimensions sections which requires Alacritty to be restarted. For further explanation of the config file, please consult the comments in the default config file. Issues (known, unknown, feature requests, etc.) If you run into a problem with Alacritty, please file an issue. If youve got a feature request, feel free to ask about it. Keep in mind that Alacritty is very much not looking to be a feature-rich terminal emulator with all sorts of bells and widgets. Its primarily a cross-platform, blazing fast tmux renderer that Just Works. FAQ Is it really the fastest terminal emulator? In the terminals Ive benchmarked against, alacritty is either faster, WAY faster, or at least neutral. There are no benchmarks in which Ive found Alacritty to be slower. macOS + tmux + vim is slow! I thought this was supposed to be fast! This appears to be an issue outside of terminal emulators; either macOS has an IPC performance issue, or either tmux or vim (or both) have a bug. This same issue can be seen in iTerm2 and Terminal.app. Ive found that if tmux is running on another machine which is connected to Alacritty via SSH, this issue disappears. Actual throughput and rendering performance are still better in Alacritty. When will Windows support be available? When someone has time to work on it. Contributors would be welcomed :). My arrow keys dont work. It sounds like you deleted some key bindings from your config file. Please reference the default config file to restore them. Why doesnt it support scrollback? Alacrittys original purpose was to provide a better experience when using tmux which already handled scrollback. The scope of this project has since expanded, and scrollback will eventually be added. IRC Alacritty discussion can be found in #alacritty on freenode. Wayland Wayland support is available, but not everything works as expected. Many people have found a better experience using XWayland which can be achieved launching Alacritty with the WAYLAND_DISPLAY environment variable cleared: sh env WAYLAND_DISPLAY= alacritty If youre interested in seeing our Wayland support improve, please head over to the Wayland meta issue on the winit project to see how you may contribute. License Alacritty is released under the Apache License, Version 2.0.