Terminals Are Sexy A curated list of Terminal frameworks, plugins & resources for CLI lovers. Check out my blog and follow me on Twitter. Table of Contents Shells Base Shells ZSH Bash Git Fish Terminal Emulation Applications Package Managers Universal macOS Linux Windows Text Editors Tools and Plugins Communication Other Community Other Sexy Lists Awesome Misc Contributing Shells Sexy frameworks, plugins and resources for your sexy shell. Base Shells bash - GNU Projects shell (Bourne Again SHell). zsh - Powerful shell with scripting language. fish - Smart and user-friendly command line shell. xonsh - Python-ish, BASHwards-looking shell language and command prompt. PowerShell - Automation and configuration tool/framework that is optimized for dealing with structured data. Ammonite-Shell - An object shell with a Scala-like scripting language. ZSH oh-my-zsh - Delightful community-driven framework for managing your zsh configuration. prezto - Configuration framework for Zsh. zsh-syntax-highlighting - Fish shell like syntax highlighting for Zsh. antigen - Plugin manager for zsh, inspired by oh-my-zsh and vundle. slimzsh - Small, usable configuration for ZSH. antibody - Faster and simpler antigen written in Golang. pure - Pretty, minimal and fast ZSH prompt. powerlevel9k - Super flexible awesome powerline ZSH theme. liquidprompt - Full-featured & carefully designed adaptive prompt for Bash & Zsh. dotzsh - Community driven framework for zsh. zgen - Lightweight and simple plugin manager for ZSH. zplug - Next-generation plugin manager for zsh. zunit - Powerful unit testing framework for ZSH. zshdb - ZSH debugger. zsh-quickstart-kit - Simple zsh quickstart for using zsh and zgen. zsh-autosuggestions - Fish-like autosuggestions for zsh. alf - Out of this world super fast and configurable framework for zsh. ant-zsh - Tiny and lightweight ZSH configuration environment for special customization needs. pumice - Lightweight plugin manager for zsh. zeesh - Cross-platform Zsh framework. zilsh - Zsh config system that aims to appeal more to power-users and follow the simplistic approach of vim-pathogen. zim - Zsh configuration framework with blazing speed and modular extensions. zoppo - Crippled configuration framework for Zsh. zpm - Plugin manager for zsh similar to vim-plug. ztanesh - Aims to improve your UNIX command line experience and productivity with the the configuration provided by the ztanesh project. zulu - Total environment manager for ZSH 5+. zsh-pony - Covers customizing ZSH without a framework. Bash bash-sensible - Attempt at saner Bash defaults. bash-powerline - Powerline-style Bash prompt in pure Bash script. bashtrap - Quick way to spruce up OSX terminal. liquidprompt - Full-featured & carefully designed adaptive prompt for Bash & Zsh. hstr - Bash History Suggest Box. aliases - Contextual, dynamic, organized aliases for the bash shell. bash-it - Collection of community Bash commands and scripts. Git git-prompt - Bash prompt with Git, SVN and HG modules. gittify - Colorful Bash prompt + customized Git aliases. oh-my-git - Opinionated git prompt for bash and zsh. bash-git-prompt - Informative and fancy Bash prompt for Git users. sexy-bash-prompt - Bash prompt with colors, Git statuses, and Git branches. git-sh - Customized Bash environment suitable for Git work. git-radar - Heads up display for git git-extra-commands - Collection of useful extra commands for git Fish Fisherman - Concurrent plugin manager for fish. oh-my-fish - The Fishshell Framework. ⬆ back to top Terminal Emulation Applications Sexy 3rd party terminal emulation applications. iTerm2 - Terminal emulator for macOS that does amazing things. ConEmu - Customizable Windows terminal with tabs, splits, quake-style and more. PuTTY - SSH and telnet client, developed originally by Simon Tatham for the Windows platform. KiTTY - Fork from version 0.67 of PuTTY, the best telnet / SSH client in the world. Terminator - The robot future of terminals. Konsole - Terminal emulator for the K Desktop Environment. MacTerm - Powerful replacement for macOS Terminal. xterm - Terminal emulator for the X Window System. Hyper - Terminal built on web technologies. ZOC - SSH/Telnet Client and Terminal Emulator for macOS and Windows. Upterm - Terminal emulator for the 21st century. TotalTerminal - System-wide terminal available on a hot-key. Go2Shell - Opens a terminal window to the current directory in Finder. Cathode - Vintage terminal for macOS. Alacritty - Cross-platform, GPU-accelerated terminal emulator. Termite - Keyboard-centric terminal, aimed at use within a tiling window manager. Cmder - Lovely console emulator package for Windows. ConsoleZ - Windows console window enhancement. It is a fork of Console project. Mosh - Remote terminal application that allows roaming and supports intermittent connectivity. Tilix - Advanced GTK3 tiling terminal emulator that follows the Gnome Human Interface Guidelines. Tilda - A Gtk based drop down terminal for Linux and Unix ⬆ back to top Package Managers Sexy package managers for your macOS, Linux & Windows CLIs. Universal guix - Functional package manager for installed software packages and versions. nix - Powerful package manager for Linux and other Unix systems that makes package management reliable and reproducible. pip - Package management system used to install and manage software packages written in Python. npmjs - Package manager for JavaScript. duo - Next-generation package manager for the front-end. basher - Package manager for shell scripts. bpkg - JavaScript has npm, Ruby has Gems, Python has pip and now Shell has bpkg. rubygems - The Ruby communitys gem hosting service. composer - Composer is a package manager for PHP. yarn - New package and dependency manager for javascript. macOS homebrew - Missing package manager for macOS. fink - Wants to bring the full world of Unix Open Source software to Darwin and macOS. macports - Package managemer that simplifies the installation of software on the macOS and Darwin operating systems. Linux linuxbrew - The Homebrew package manager for Linux. pkgin - Aimed at being an apt / yum like tool for managing pkgsrc binary packages. Windows oneget - PackageManagement (aka OneGet) is a package manager for Windows. chocolatey - Package manager for Windows. cygwin - Linux-like environment for Windows making it possible to port software running on POSIX systems to Windows. ninite - Install and Update All Your Programs at Once. ruckzuck - Software Package Manager for Windows, a quick way to install and update Software. wpkg - Automated software deployment, upgrade and removal program for Windows. scoop - Package manager for Windows. babun - Preconfigured cygwin with an advance package manager - pact. ⬆ back to top Text Editors Sexy text editors for your Command Line Interface. vim - Extensively configurable, cross-platform and highly efficient text editor. SpaceVim - Community-driven vim distribution. neovim - Literally the future of vim. emacs - Cross-platform text-editor that has both command-line and graphical user interface. spacemacs - Community-driven emacs distribution. nano - Text editor for Unix-like computing systems or operating environments using a command line interface. micro - Modern and intuitive terminal-based text editor. jed - Freely available text editor for Unix, VMS, MSDOS, OS/2, BeOS, QNX, and win9X/NT platforms. kakoune - Modal editor with multiple selections and orthogonal design. vis - Highly efficient text editor. slap - Sublime-like terminal-based text editor. ⬆ back to top Tools and Plugins Sexy Applications for your Command Line Interface. haxor-news - Browse Hacker News like a haxor. reddit terminal viewer - Browse Reddit from your terminal. taskwarrior - Command-line TODO list manager. transfer.sh - Quickly upload and share files from your shell. whereami - Get your geolocation information from the CLI. howdoi - Instant code answers and examples from the command line htop - Cool looking and interactive process viewer replacement for the top command. glances - A top/htop alternative. lolcat - Rainbows and unicorns! ack - Tool like grep, optimized for programmers. the_silver_searcher - Code-searching tool similar to ack, but faster. lunchy - Friendly wrapper for launchctl. tldr - Simplified and community-driven man pages. tmux - Terminal multiplexer. ranger - Console file manager with vi key bindings. gcalcli - Google Calendar command line interface. googler - Search Google from your terminal. jq.node - Command-line JSON/string processor, JavaScript and Lodash in your shell. screenfetch - Fetches system/theme information in terminal for Linux desktop screenshots. neofetch - Fetches system/theme information in terminal for Linux desktop screenshots. Alternative to screenfetch. jrnl - Simple command line journal application that stores your journal in a plain text file. tig - Text mode interface for git. vifm - Console file manager with vi key bindings and some ideas from mutt. byobu - Byobu is an open source text-based window manager and terminal multiplexer. autojump - cd command that learns fzf - Command-line fuzzy finder. wttr.in - The right way to check the weather. getnews.tech - Checking the latest news headlines from various news outlets on the web. hub - Command-line wrapper for git that makes working with GitHub easy. exa - Replacement for ls written in Rust. homebrew-cask - CLI workflow for the administration of macOS applications distributed as binaries. mps-youtube - Terminal based YouTube player and downloader colorls - Beautify the terminals ls command, with color and font-awesome icons. buku - command-line bookmark manager. youtube-dl - download videos from YouTube wal - generate and change colorschemes on the fly. streamlink - CLI for extracting streams from various websites to a video player of your choosing. dockly - Docker console UI and Dashboard for quickly managing and inspecting Containers and Services. lf - Terminal file manager. lexis - word counting made easy. Retrieve the number of words in a string or stdin. asciinema - Terminal session recorder. rebound - Command-line debugger that instantly fetches Stack Overflow results when you get a compiler error. cointop - The fastest and most interactive terminal based UI application for tracking cryptocurrencies. bcal - Storage conversion and expression calculator. ddgr - DuckDuckGo from the terminal. imgp - Multi-core batch image resizer and rotator. add-gitignore - An interactive CLI that generates a .gitignore for your project based on your needs. ⬆ back to top Communication Sexy Tools for communicating through the Command Line Interface. irssi - Self proclaimed client of the future and my favorite IRC client. bitchx - Feature-rich and highly configurable, terminal based IRC client based on ircII. centerim - Terminal based, multi-protocol Instant Messaging client with support for IRC. weechat - Fast, light and extensible chat client. epic - IRC client that has been under active development for 20+ years in 5 generations. Slackadaisical - Simple Slack client for the CLI. go-jira - Simple jira command line client in Go. ⬆ back to top Other Community Join the CLI lover community. /r/commandline - This is for anything regarding the command line, in any operating system. /r/osxterminal - Tips for using terminal.app in macOS. /r/zsh/ - Everything on zsh. /r/unixporn/ - Everything on unix. #bash - Bash IRC channel on freenode. Stack Overflow - Terminal tagged questions. Other Sexy Lists Here are some more sexy lists. Awesome awesome-devenv - Curated list of delightful Bash scripts and resources. awesome-sysadmin - Curated list of amazingly awesome open source sysadmin resources. awesome-zsh-plugins - Collection of ZSH frameworks, plugins & themes inspired by the various awesome list collections out there. awesome-emacs - A community driven list of useful Emacs packages, libraries and others. Misc the-art-of-command-line - Master the command line, in one page. bash-guide - Guide to learn bash. ⬆ back to top Contributing Your contributions are always welcome! Please take a look at our contribution guidelines and code of conduct first. Pull requests might be kept open if it hasnt been decided whether additions are sexy enough.