Dash for iOS Dash gives your iPad and iPhone instant offline access to 150+ API documentation sets. For more information about Dash, check out https://kapeli.com/dash_ios. Also please check out Dash for macOS. Installation Instructions The recommended way of installing Dash is through the App Store. Alternatively, you can use Xcode to install Dash on your iOS device using just your Apple ID. All you need to do is: Install Xcode Download the Dash for iOS Source Code or git clone https://github.com/Kapeli/Dash-iOS.git Open "Dash iOS.xcworkspace" in Xcode Go to Xcodes Preferences > Accounts and add your Apple ID In Xcodes sidebar select "Dash iOS" and go to General > Identity. Append a word at the end of the Bundle Identifier e.g. com.kapeli.dash.ios.name so its unique. Select your Apple ID in Signing > Team Connect your iPad or iPhone using USB and select it in Xcodes Product menu > Destination Press CMD+R or Product > Run to install Dash If you install using a free (non-developer) account, make sure to rebuild Dash every 7 days, otherwise it will quit at launch when your certificate expires Contact me if you need help. Contribution Guidelines I am currently only accepting pull requests that fix bugs or add/improve features. I cant allocate time to review pull requests that only refactor things. Try to maintain the same coding style I use (e.g. curly braces on their own line). I know its a bit different from anyone elses and you might disagree with it, but having sections of code with a different style would make things worse.