Iris Web Framework <a href="https://github.com/kataras/iris/releases">klzzwxh:0023</a> <a href="https://github.com/kataras/iris/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed">klzzwxh:0029</a> Iris is a fast, simple yet fully featured and very efficient web framework for Go. Iris provides a beautifully expressive and easy to use foundation for your next website or API. Finally, a real expressjs equivalent for the Go Programming Language. Learn what others say about Iris and star this github repository to stay up to date. Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 Become a backer sh $ cat example.go ```go package main import "github.com/kataras/iris" func main() { app := iris.New() // Load all templates from the "./views" folder // where extension is ".html" and parse them // using the standard html/template package. app.RegisterView(iris.HTML("./views", ".html")) // Method: GET // Resource: http://localhost:8080 app.Get("/", func(ctx iris.Context) { // Bind: {{.message}} with "Hello world!" ctx.ViewData("message", "Hello world!") // Render template file: ./views/hello.html ctx.View("hello.html") }) // Method: GET // Resource: http://localhost:8080/user/42 // // Need to use a custom regexp instead? // Easy, // just mark the parameters type to string // which accepts anything and make use of // its `regexp` macro function, i.e: // app.Get("/user/{id:string regexp(^[0-9]+$)}") app.Get("/user/{id:long}", func(ctx iris.Context) { userID, _ := ctx.Params().GetInt64("id") ctx.Writef("User ID: %d", userID) }) // Start the server using a network address. app.Run(iris.Addr(":8080")) } ``` Learn more about path parameters types by clicking here html <!-- file: ./views/hello.html --> <html> <head> <title>Hello Page</title> </head> <body> <h1>{{.message}}</h1> </body> </html> sh $ go run example.go Now listening on: http://localhost:8080 Application Started. Press CTRL+C to shut down. _ Installation The only requirement is the Go Programming Language sh $ go get -u github.com/kataras/iris Iris takes advantage of the vendor directory feature. You get truly reproducible builds, as this method guards against upstream renames and deletes. Updated at: Tuesday, 21 November 2017 Benchmarks from third-party source over the rest web frameworks Support HISTORY file is your best friend, it contains information about the latest features and changes Did you happen to find a bug? Post it at github issues Do you have any questions or need to speak with someone experienced to solve a problem at real-time? Join us to the community chat Complete our form-based user experience report by clicking here Do you like the framework? Tweet something about it! The People have spoken: For more information about contributing to the Iris project please check the CONTRIBUTING.md file. List of all Contributors Learn First of all, the most correct way to begin with a web framework is to learn the basics of the programming language and the standard http capabilities, if your web application is a very simple personal project without performance and maintainability requirements you may want to proceed just with the standard packages. After that follow the guidelines: Navigate through 100+1 examples and some iris starter kits we crafted for you Read the godocs for any details Prepare a cup of coffee or tea, whatever pleases you the most, and read some articles we found for you Iris starter kits table form | Description | Link | | -----------|-------------| | Hasura hub starter project with a ready to deploy golang helloworld webapp with IRIS! | https://hasura.io/hub/project/hasura/hello-golang-iris | | A basic web app built in Iris for Go |https://github.com/gauravtiwari/go_iris_app | | A mini social-network created with the awesome Iris💖💖 | https://github.com/iris-contrib/Iris-Mini-Social-Network | | Iris isomorphic react/hot reloadable/redux/css-modules starter kit | https://github.com/iris-contrib/iris-starter-kit | | Demo project with react using typescript and Iris | https://github.com/ionutvilie/react-ts | | Self-hosted Localization Management Platform built with Iris and Angular | https://github.com/iris-contrib/parrot | | Iris + Docker and Kubernetes | https://github.com/iris-contrib/cloud-native-go | | Quickstart for Iris with Nanobox | https://guides.nanobox.io/golang/iris/from-scratch | A basic web app built in Iris for Go A mini social-network created with the awesome Iris💖💖 Iris isomorphic react/hot reloadable/redux/css-modules starter kit Demo project with react using typescript and Iris Self-hosted Localization Management Platform built with Iris and Angular Iris + Docker and Kubernetes Quickstart for Iris with Nanobox A Hasura starter project with a ready to deploy Golang hello-world web app with IRIS Did you build something similar? Let us know! Middleware Iris has a great collection of handlers[1][2] that you can use side by side with your web apps. However you are not limited to them - you are free to use any third-party middleware that is compatible with the net/http package, _examples/convert-handlers will show you the way. Iris, unlike others, is 100% compatible with the standards and thats why the majority of the big companies that adapt Go to their workflow, like a very famous US Television Network, trust Iris; its up-to-date and it will be always aligned with the std net/http package which is modernized by the Go Authors on each new release of the Go Programming Language. Articles A Todo MVC Application using Iris and Vue.js A Hasura starter project with a ready to deploy Golang hello-world web app with IRIS Top 6 web frameworks for Go as of 2017 Iris Go Framework + MongoDB How to build a file upload form using DropzoneJS and Go How to display existing files on server using DropzoneJS and Go Iris, a modular web framework Go vs .NET Core in terms of HTTP performance Iris Go vs .NET Core Kestrel in terms of HTTP performance How to Turn an Android Device into a Web Server Deploying a Iris Golang app in hasura A URL Shortener Service using Go, Iris and Bolt Video Courses Daily Coding - Web Framework Golang: Iris Framework by WarnabiruTV, source: youtube, cost: FREE Tutorial Golang MVC dengan Iris Framework & Mongo DB (19 parts so far) by Musobar Media, source: youtube, cost: FREE Go/Golang 27 - Iris framework : Routage de base by stephgdesign, source: youtube, cost: FREE Go/Golang 28 - Iris framework : Templating by stephgdesignn, source: youtube, cost: FREE Go/Golang 29 - Iris framework : Paramètres by stephgdesign, source: youtube, cost: FREE Go/Golang 30 - Iris framework : Les middelwares by stephgdesign, source: youtube, cost: FREE Go/Golang 31 - Iris framework : Les sessions by stephgdesign, source: youtube, cost: FREE Get hired There are many companies and start-ups looking for Go web developers with Iris experience as requirement, we are searching for you every day and we post those information via our facebook page, like the page to get notified, we have already posted some of them. License Iris is licensed under the 3-Clause BSD License. Iris is 100% free and open-source software. For any questions regarding the license please send e-mail.