Kickstarter for iOS Welcome to Kickstarters open source iOS app! Come on in, take your shoes off, stay a while—explore how Kickstarters native squad has built and continues to build the app. Weve also open sourced our Android app, and read more about our journey to open source here. Getting Started Download the Xcode 9 release. Clone this repository. Run make bootstrap to install tools and dependencies. Run make test-all to build and run tests on all platforms. * To provide a mock version that serves up hard-coded data immediately, set KsApi.Secrets.isOSS = true. Some fun things to explore If youre just looking for a quick glance at a few things were particularly proud of, look no further: The Screenshots directory holds nearly 500 screenshots of various screens in every language, device and edge-case state that we like to make sure stays true. For example, a backer viewing a project in French here , or a creator looking at their dashboard in German and on an iPad here. We use Swift Playgrounds for iterative development and styling. Most major screens in the app get a corresponding playground where we can see a wide variety of devices, languages and data in real time. Browse our collection of playgrounds here. We use view models as a lightweight way to isolate side effects and embrace a functional core. We write these as a pure mapping of input signals to output signals, and test them heavily, including tests for localization, accessibility and event tracking. Documentation While were at it, why not share our docs? Check out the native docs we have written so far for more documentation. Dependencies We make heavy use of the following projects, and so it can be helpful to be familiar with them: 1st party Prelude: Foundation of types and functions we feel are missing from the Swift standard library. ReactiveExtensions: A collection of operators we like to add to ReactiveCocoa. 3rd party AlamofireImage Argo FBSnapshotTestCase ReactiveSwift Notices for 3rd party libraries in this repository are contained in NOTICE.md. Contributing We intend for this project to be an educational resource: we are excited to share our wins, mistakes, and methodology of iOS development as we work in the open. Our primary focus is to continue improving the app for our users in line with our roadmap. The best way to submit feedback and report bugs is to open a GitHub issue. Please be sure to include your operating system, device, version number, and steps to reproduce reported bugs. Keep in mind that all participants will be expected to follow our code of conduct. Code of Conduct We aim to share our knowledge and findings as we work daily to improve our product, for our community, in a safe and open space. We work as we live, as kind and considerate human beings who learn and grow from giving and receiving positive, constructive feedback. We reserve the right to delete or ban any behavior violating this base foundation of respect. Find this interesting? We do too, and were hiring! License ``` Copyright 2018 Kickstarter, PBC. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. ```