Kivy Innovative user interfaces made easy. Kivy is an open source, cross-platform Python framework for the development of applications that make use of innovative, multi-touch user interfaces. The aim is to allow for quick and easy interaction design and rapid prototyping whilst making your code reusable and deployable. Kivy is written in Python and Cython, based on OpenGL ES 2, supports various input devices and has an extensive widget library. With the same codebase, you can target Windows, OS X, Linux, Android and iOS. All Kivy widgets are built with multitouch support. Kivy is MIT licensed, actively developed by a great community and is supported by many projects managed by the Kivy Organization. Installation, Documentation and Examples Extensive installation instructions as well as tutorials and general documentation, including an API reference, can be found at https://kivy.org/docs. A PDF version is also available. Kivy ships with many examples which can be found in the examples folder. Support If you need assistance, you can ask for help on our mailing list: User Group : https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-users Email : kivy-users@googlegroups.com We also have an IRC channel: Server : irc.freenode.net Port : 6667, 6697 (SSL only) Channel : #kivy Web client : WebChat Contributing We love pull requests and discussing novel ideas. Check out our contribution guide and feel free to improve Kivy. The following mailing list and IRC channel are used exclusively for discussions about developing the Kivy framework and its sister projects: Dev Group : https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-dev Email : kivy-dev@googlegroups.com IRC channel: Server : irc.freenode.net Port : 6667, 6697 (SSL only) Channel : #kivy-dev Web client : WebChat Sister projects Buildozer: generic Python packager for Android and iOS. Plyer: platform-independent Python wrapper for platform-dependent APIs. Pyjnius: dynamic access to the Java/Android API from Python. Pyobjus: dynamic access to the Objective-C/iOS API from Python. Python for Android: toolchain for building and packaging Python applications for Android. Kivy iOS: toolchain for building and packaging Kivy applications for iOS. Audiostream: library for direct access to the microphone and speaker. Kivy Designer: UI designer for Kivy. KivEnt: entity-based game engine for Kivy. Garden: widgets and libraries created and maintained by users. Oscpy: a fast and tested python2/3 implementation of OSC. Licenses Kivy is released under the terms of the MIT License. Please refer to the LICENSE file. The provided fonts Roboto and Roboto Mono are licensed and distributed under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0. The DejaVuSans (used for the virtual keyboard) license can be viewed here. The current UI design has been adapted from Moblintouch themes SVGs and is licensed under the terms of the LGPLv2.1.