Knockout Knockout is a JavaScript MVVM (a modern variant of MVC) library that makes it easier to create rich, desktop-like user interfaces with JavaScript and HTML. It uses observers to make your UI automatically stay in sync with an underlying data model, along with a powerful and extensible set of declarative bindings to enable productive development. Getting started Totally new to Knockout? The most fun place to start is the online interactive tutorials. For more details, see Documentation on the projects website Online examples at http://knockoutjs.com/examples/ Downloading Knockout You can download released versions of Knockout from the projects website. For Node.js developers, Knockout is also available from npm - just run npm install knockout. Building Knockout from sources If you prefer to build the library yourself: Clone the repo from GitHub sh git clone https://github.com/knockout/knockout.git cd knockout Acquire build dependencies. Make sure you have Node.js installed on your workstation. This is only needed to build Knockout from sources. Knockout itself has no dependency on Node.js once it is built (it works with any server technology or none). Now run: sh npm install -g grunt-cli npm install The first npm command sets up the popular Grunt build tool. You might need to run this command with sudo if youre on Linux or Mac OS X, or in an Administrator command prompt on Windows. The second npm command fetches the remaining build dependencies. Run the build tool sh grunt Now youll find the built files in build/output/. Running the tests If you have phantomjs installed, then the grunt script will automatically run the specification suite and report its results. Or, if you want to run the specs in a browser (e.g., for debugging), simply open spec/runner.html in your browser. License MIT license - http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php