mermaid Generation of diagrams and flowcharts from text in a similar manner as markdown. Ever wanted to simplify documentation and avoid heavy tools like Visio when explaining your code? This is why mermaid was born, a simple markdown-like script language for generating charts from text via javascript. Flowchart graph TD; A-->B; A-->C; B-->D; C-->D; Sequence diagram sequenceDiagram participant Alice participant Bob Alice->>John: Hello John, how are you? loop Healthcheck John->>John: Fight against hypochondria end Note right of John: Rational thoughts <br/>prevail... John-->>Alice: Great! John->>Bob: How about you? Bob-->>John: Jolly good! Gantt diagram ``` gantt dateFormat YYYY-MM-DD title Adding GANTT diagram to mermaid section A section Completed task :done, des1, 2014-01-06,2014-01-08 Active task :active, des2, 2014-01-09, 3d Future task : des3, after des2, 5d Future task2 : des4, after des3, 5d ``` Class diagram - :exclamation: experimental classDiagram Class01 <|-- AveryLongClass : Cool Class03 *-- Class04 Class05 o-- Class06 Class07 .. Class08 Class09 --> C2 : Where am i? Class09 --* C3 Class09 --|> Class07 Class07 : equals() Class07 : Object[] elementData Class01 : size() Class01 : int chimp Class01 : int gorilla Class08 <--> C2: Cool label Git graph - :exclamation: experimental ``` gitGraph: options { "nodeSpacing": 150, "nodeRadius": 10 } end commit branch newbranch checkout newbranch commit commit checkout master commit commit merge newbranch ``` Installation CDN https://unpkg.com/mermaid@<version>/dist/ Replace <version> with expected version number. Example: https://unpkg.com/mermaid@7.1.0/dist/ Node.js yarn add mermaid Documentation https://mermaidjs.github.io Sibling projects mermaid CLI mermaid live editor mermaid webpack demo mermaid Parcel demo Request for assistance Things are piling up and I have hard time keeping up. To remedy this it would be great if we could form a core team of developers to cooperate with the future development mermaid. As part of this team you would get write access to the repository and would represent the project when answering questions and issues. Together we could continue the work with things like: adding more typers of diagrams like mindmaps, ert digrams etc improving existing diagrams Dont hesitate to contact me if you want to get involved. For contributors Setup yarn install Build yarn build:watch Lint yarn lint We use JavaScript Standard Style. We recommend you installing editor plugins so you can get real time lint result. Test yarn test Manual test in browser: open dist/index.html Release For those who have the permission to do so: Update version number in package.json. npm publish Command above generates files into the dist folder and publishes them to npmjs.org. Credits Many thanks to the d3 and dagre-d3 projects for providing the graphical layout and drawing libraries! Thanks also to the js-sequence-diagram project for usage of the grammar for the sequence diagrams. Thanks to Jessica Peter for inspiration and starting point for gantt rendering. Mermaid was created by Knut Sveidqvist for easier documentation. Tyler Long has became a collaborator since April 2017. Here is the full list of the projects contributors.