React Starter Kit — "isomorphic" web app boilerplate React Starter Kit is an opinionated boilerplate for web development built on top of Node.js, Express, GraphQL and React, containing modern web development tools such as Webpack, Babel and Browsersync. Helping you to stay productive following the best practices. A solid starting point for both professionals and newcomers to the industry. See getting started guide, demo, docs, roadmap | Join #react-starter-kit chat room on Gitter | Visit our sponsors: Hiring Getting Started Follow the getting started guide to download and run the project (Node.js >= 6.5) Check the code recipes used in this boilerplate, or share yours Customization The master branch of React Starter Kit doesnt include a Flux implementation or any other advanced integrations. Nevertheless, we have some integrations available to you in feature branches that you can use either as a reference or merge into your project: feature/redux (PR) — isomorphic Redux by Pavel Lang (see how to integrate Redux) (based on master) feature/apollo (PR) — isomorphic Apollo Client by Pavel Lang (see Tracking PR #1147) (based on feature/redux) feature/react-intl (PR) — isomorphic Redux and React Intl by Pavel Lang (see how to integrate React Intl) (based on feature/apollo) You can see status of most reasonable merge combination as PRs labeled as TRACKING If you think that any of these features should be on master, or vice versa, some features should removed from the master branch, please let us know. We love your feedback! Comparison React Starter Kit React Static Boilerplate ASP.NET Core Starter Kit App type Isomorphic (universal) Single-page application Single-page application Frontend Language JavaScript (ES2015+, JSX) JavaScript (ES2015+, JSX) JavaScript (ES2015+, JSX) Libraries React, History, Universal Router React, History, Redux React, History, Redux Routes Imperative (functional) Declarative Declarative, cross-stack Backend Language JavaScript (ES2015+, JSX) n/a C#, F# Libraries Node.js, Express, Sequelize, GraphQL n/a ASP.NET Core, EF Core, ASP.NET Identity SSR Yes n/a n/a Data API GraphQL n/a Web API Backers ♥ React Starter Kit? Help us keep it alive by donating funds to cover project expenses via OpenCollective or Bountysource! How to Contribute Anyone and everyone is welcome to contribute to this project. The best way to start is by checking our open issues, submit a new issues or feature request, participate in discussions, upvote or downvote the issues you like or dislike, send pull requests. Learn More Getting Started with React.js Getting Started with GraphQL and Relay React.js Questions on StackOverflow React.js Discussion Board Flux Architecture for Building User Interfaces Enzyme — JavaScript Testing utilities for React Flow — A static type checker for JavaScript The Future of React Learn ES6, ES6 Features Related Projects GraphQL Starter Kit — Boilerplate for building data APIs with Node.js, JavaScript (via Babel) and GraphQL Membership Database — SQL schema boilerplate for user accounts, profiles, roles, and auth claims Babel Starter Kit — Boilerplate for authoring JavaScript/React.js libraries Support #react-starter-kit on Stack Overflow — Questions and answers #react-starter-kit on Gitter — Watch announcements, share ideas and feedback GitHub issues, or Scrum board — File issues, send feature requests appear.in/react — Open hours! Exchange ideas and experiences (React, GraphQL, startups and pet projects) @koistya on Codementor, or Skype — Private consulting License Copyright © 2014-present Kriasoft, LLC. This source code is licensed under the MIT license found in the LICENSE.txt file. The documentation to the project is licensed under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license. Made with ♥ by Konstantin Tarkus (@koistya) and contributors