CryptoSwift Crypto related functions and helpers for Swift implemented in Swift. (#PureSwift) Note: The master branch follows the latest currently released version of Swift. If you need an version for older version of Swift, you can specify its version in your Podfile or use the code on the branch for that version. Older branches are unsupported. Check versions for details. If you find the project useful, please support authors to keep it alive. Requirements | Features | Contribution | Installation | Swift versions | How-to | Author | License | Changelog Requirements Good mood Features Easy to use Convenient extensions for String and Data Support for incremental updates (stream, ...) iOS, macOS, AppleTV, watchOS, Linux support Hash (Digest) MD5 | SHA1 | SHA224 | SHA256 | SHA384 | SHA512 | SHA3 Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) CRC32 | CRC32C | CRC16 Cipher AES-128, AES-192, AES-256 | ChaCha20 | Rabbit | Blowfish Message authenticators Poly1305 | HMAC (MD5, SHA1, SHA256) | CMAC Cipher mode of operation Electronic codebook (ECB) Cipher-block chaining (CBC) Propagating Cipher Block Chaining (PCBC) Cipher feedback (CFB) Output Feedback (OFB) Counter Mode (CTR) Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) Password-Based Key Derivation Function PBKDF1 (Password-Based Key Derivation Function 1) PBKDF2 (Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2) HKDF (HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function) Data padding PKCS#5 | PKCS#7 | Zero padding | No padding Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) AEAD_CHACHA20_POLY1305 Why Why? Because I can. How do I get involved? You want to help, great! Go ahead and fork our repo, make your changes and send us a pull request. Contribution Check out CONTRIBUTING.md for more information on how to help with CryptoSwift. If you found a bug, open an issue. If you have a feature request, open an issue. Installation To install CryptoSwift, add it as a submodule to your project (on the top level project directory): git submodule add https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift.git It is recommended to enable Whole-Module Optimization to gain better performance. Non-optimized build results in significantly worse performance. Embedded Framework Embedded frameworks require a minimum deployment target of iOS 8 or OS X Mavericks (10.9). Drag the CryptoSwift.xcodeproj file into your Xcode project, and add appropriate framework as a dependency to your target. Now select your App and choose the General tab for the app target. Find Embedded Binaries and press "+", then select CryptoSwift.framework (iOS, OS X, watchOS or tvOS) Sometimes "embedded framework" option is not available. In that case, you have to add new build phase for the target iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS In the project, youll find single scheme for all platforms: - CryptoSwift Swift versions support Swift 1.2: branch swift12 version <= 0.0.13 Swift 2.1: branch swift21 version <= 0.2.3 Swift 2.2, 2.3: branch swift2 version <= 0.5.2 Swift 3.1, branch swift3 version <= 0.6.9 Swift 3.2, branch swift32 version = 0.7.0 Swift 4.0, branch swift4 version >= 0.7.1 Swift 4.1, branch master version >= 0.9.0 CocoaPods You can use CocoaPods. ```ruby platform :ios, 8.0 use_frameworks! target MyApp do pod CryptoSwift end ``` or for newest version from specified branch of code: ruby pod CryptoSwift, :git => "https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift", :branch => "master" Bear in mind that CocoaPods will build CryptoSwift without Whole-Module Optimization that may impact performance. You can change it manually after installation, or use cocoapods-wholemodule plugin. Carthage You can use Carthage. Specify in Cartfile: ruby github "krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift" Run carthage to build the framework and drag the built CryptoSwift.framework into your Xcode project. Follow build instructions. Common issues. Swift Package Manager You can use Swift Package Manager and specify dependency in Package.swift by adding this: swift dependencies: [ .package(url: "https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift.git", .upToNextMinor(from: "0.9.0")) ] or more strict swift dependencies: [ .package(url: "https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift.git", .exact("0.9.0")) ] See: Package.swift - manual How-to Basics (data types, conversion, ...) Digest (MD5, SHA...) Message authenticators (HMAC, CMAC...) Password-Based Key Derivation Function (PBKDF2, ...) HMAC-based Key Derivation Function (HKDF) Data Padding ChaCha20 Rabbit Blowfish AES - Advanced Encryption Standard AES-GCM Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) also check Playground Basics swift import CryptoSwift CryptoSwift uses array of bytes aka Array<UInt8> as a base type for all operations. Every data may be converted to a stream of bytes. You will find convenience functions that accept String or Data, and it will be internally converted to the array of bytes. Data types conversion For you convenience CryptoSwift provides two functions to easily convert array of bytes to Data and another way around: Data from bytes: swift let data = Data(bytes: [0x01, 0x02, 0x03]) Data to Array<UInt8> swift let bytes = data.bytes // [1,2,3] Hexadecimal encoding: swift let bytes = Array<UInt8>(hex: "0x010203") // [1,2,3] let hex = bytes.toHexString() // "010203" Build bytes out of String swift let bytes: Array<UInt8> = "cipherkey".bytes // Array("cipherkey".utf8) Also... check out helpers that work with Base64 encoded data: swift "aPf/i9th9iX+vf49eR7PYk2q7S5xmm3jkRLejgzHNJs=".decryptBase64ToString(cipher) "aPf/i9th9iX+vf49eR7PYk2q7S5xmm3jkRLejgzHNJs=".decryptBase64(cipher) bytes.toBase64() Calculate Digest Hashing a data or array of bytes (aka Array<UInt8>) swift /* Hash struct usage */ let bytes:Array<UInt8> = [0x01, 0x02, 0x03] let digest = input.md5() let digest = Digest.md5(bytes) ```swift let data = Data(bytes: [0x01, 0x02, 0x03]) let hash = data.md5() let hash = data.sha1() let hash = data.sha224() let hash = data.sha256() let hash = data.sha384() let hash = data.sha512() swift do { var digest = MD5() let partial1 = try digest.update(withBytes: [0x31, 0x32]) let partial2 = try digest.update(withBytes: [0x33]) let result = try digest.finish() } catch { } ``` Hashing a String and printing result swift let hash = "123".md5() // "123".bytes.md5() Calculate CRC ```swift bytes.crc16() data.crc16() bytes.crc32() data.crc32() ``` Message authenticators ```swift // Calculate Message Authentication Code (MAC) for message let key:Array = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,...] try Poly1305(key: key).authenticate(bytes) try HMAC(key: key, variant: .sha256).authenticate(bytes) try CMAC(key: key).authenticate(bytes) ``` Password-Based Key Derivation Functions ```swift let password: Array = Array("s33krit".utf8) let salt: Array = Array("nacllcan".utf8) let key = try PKCS5.PBKDF2(password: password, salt: salt, iterations: 4096, variant: .sha256).calculate() ``` HMAC-based Key Derivation Function ```swift let password: Array = Array("s33krit".utf8) let salt: Array = Array("nacllcan".utf8) let key = try HKDF(password: password, salt: salt, variant: .sha256).calculate() ``` Data Padding Some content-encryption algorithms assume the input length is a multiple of k octets, where k is greater than one. For such algorithms, the input shall be padded. swift Padding.pkcs7.add(to: bytes, blockSize: AES.blockSize) Working with Ciphers ChaCha20 swift let encrypted = try ChaCha20(key: key, iv: iv).encrypt(message) let decrypted = try ChaCha20(key: key, iv: iv).decrypt(encrypted) Rabbit swift let encrypted = try Rabbit(key: key, iv: iv).encrypt(message) let decrypted = try Rabbit(key: key, iv: iv).decrypt(encrypted) Blowfish swift let encrypted = try Blowfish(key: key, blockMode: CBC(iv: iv), padding: .pkcs7).encrypt(message) let decrypted = try Blowfish(key: key, blockMode: CBC(iv: iv), padding: .pkcs7).decrypt(encrypted) AES Notice regarding padding: Manual padding of data is optional, and CryptoSwift is using PKCS7 padding by default. If you need manually disable/enable padding, you can do this by setting parameter for AES class Variant of AES encryption (AES-128, AES-192, AES-256) depends on given key length: AES-128 = 16 bytes AES-192 = 24 bytes AES-256 = 32 bytes AES-256 example swift try AES(key: [1,2,3,...,32], blockMode: CBC(iv: [1,2,3,...,16]), padding: .pkcs7) All at once swift do { let aes = try AES(key: "keykeykeykeykeyk", iv: "drowssapdrowssap") // aes128 let ciphertext = try aes.encrypt(Array("Nullam quis risus eget urna mollis ornare vel eu leo.".utf8)) } catch { } Incremental updates Incremental operations use instance of Cryptor and encrypt/decrypt one part at a time, this way you can save on memory for large files. ```swift do { var encryptor = try AES(key: "keykeykeykeykeyk", iv: "drowssapdrowssap").makeEncryptor() var ciphertext = Array<UInt8>() // aggregate partial results ciphertext += try encryptor.update(withBytes: Array("Nullam quis risus ".utf8)) ciphertext += try encryptor.update(withBytes: Array("eget urna mollis ".utf8)) ciphertext += try encryptor.update(withBytes: Array("ornare vel eu leo.".utf8)) // finish at the end ciphertext += try encryptor.finish() print(ciphertext.toHexString()) } catch { print(error) } ``` See Playground for sample code that work with stream. AES Advanced usage ```swift let input: Array = [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9] let key: Array = [0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00] let iv: Array = AES.randomIV(AES.blockSize) do { let encrypted = try AES(key: key, blockMode: CBC(iv: iv), padding: .pkcs7).encrypt(input) let decrypted = try AES(key: key, blockMode: CBC(iv: iv), padding: .pkcs7).decrypt(encrypted) } catch { print(error) } ``` AES without data padding swift let input: Array<UInt8> = [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9] let encrypted: Array<UInt8> = try! AES(key: Array("secret0key000000".utf8), blockMode: CBC(iv: Array("0123456789012345".utf8)), padding: .noPadding).encrypt(input) Using convenience extensions swift let plain = Data(bytes: [0x01, 0x02, 0x03]) let encrypted = try! plain.encrypt(ChaCha20(key: key, iv: iv)) let decrypted = try! encrypted.decrypt(ChaCha20(key: key, iv: iv)) AES-GCM The result of Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) encryption is ciphertext and authentication tag, that is later used to decryption. encryption swift do { // In combined mode, the authentication tag is directly appended to the encrypted message. This is usually what you want. let gcm = GCM(iv: iv, mode: .combined) let aes = try AES(key: key, blockMode: gcm, padding: .noPadding) let encrypted = try aes.encrypt(plaintext) let tag = gcm.authenticationTag catch { // failed } decryption swift do { // In combined mode, the authentication tag is directly appended to the encrypted message. This is usually what you want. let gcm = GCM(iv: iv, mode: .combined) let aes = try AES(key: key, blockMode: gcm, padding: .noPadding) return try aes.decrypt(encrypted) } catch { // failed } Note: GCM instance is not intended to be reused. So you cant use the GCM from encoding, do decoding. AEAD swift let encrypt = try AEADChaCha20Poly1305.encrypt(plaintext, key: key, iv: nonce, authenticationHeader: header) let decrypt = try AEADChaCha20Poly1305.decrypt(ciphertext, key: key, iv: nonce, authenticationHeader: header, authenticationTag: tagArr: tag) Author CryptoSwift is owned and maintained by Marcin Krzyżanowski You can follow me on Twitter at @krzyzanowskim for project updates and releases. License Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Marcin Krzyżanowski marcin@krzyzanowskim.com This software is provided as-is, without any express or implied warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software. Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions: The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation is required. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source or binary distribution. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following acknowledgment: This product includes software developed by the "Marcin Krzyzanowski" (http://krzyzanowskim.com/). Changelog See CHANGELOG file.