Android-ObservableScrollView Android library to observe scroll events on scrollable views. Its easy to interact with the Toolbar introduced in Android 5.0 Lollipop and may be helpful to implement look and feel of Material Design apps. Examples Download from Google Play Please note that the app on the Play store is not always the latest version. Download from wercker If you are a wercker user, you can download the latest build artifact. See here for details. Install manually Just clone and execute installDevDebug task with Gradle. See here for details. Usage Add com.github.ksoichiro:android-observablescrollview to your dependencies in build.gradle. Add ObservableListView or other views youd like to use. Write some animation codes to the callbacks such as onScrollChanged, onUpOrCancelMotionEvent, etc. See the quick start guide for details, and the documentation for further more. Reference Supported widgets Environment Release notes FAQ Apps that use this library Jair Player by Akshay Chordiya My Gradle by Erick Chavez Alcarraz ThemeDIY by Darkion Avey {Soft} Skills by Fanatic Devs If youre using this library in your app and youd like to list it here, please let me know via email or pull requests or issues. Contributions Any contributions are welcome! Please check the FAQ and contributing guideline before submitting a new issue. Developed By Soichiro Kashima - soichiro.kashima@gmail.com Thanks Inspired by ObservableScrollView in romannurik-code. License ```license Copyright 2014 Soichiro Kashima Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. ```