Kubernetes Helm Helm is a tool for managing Kubernetes charts. Charts are packages of pre-configured Kubernetes resources. Use Helm to: Find and use popular software packaged as Kubernetes charts Share your own applications as Kubernetes charts Create reproducible builds of your Kubernetes applications Intelligently manage your Kubernetes manifest files Manage releases of Helm packages Helm in a Handbasket Helm is a tool that streamlines installing and managing Kubernetes applications. Think of it like apt/yum/homebrew for Kubernetes. Helm has two parts: a client (helm) and a server (tiller) Tiller runs inside of your Kubernetes cluster, and manages releases (installations) of your charts. Helm runs on your laptop, CI/CD, or wherever you want it to run. Charts are Helm packages that contain at least two things: A description of the package (Chart.yaml) One or more templates, which contain Kubernetes manifest files Charts can be stored on disk, or fetched from remote chart repositories (like Debian or RedHat packages) Install Binary downloads of the Helm client can be found on the latest Releases page. Unpack the helm binary and add it to your PATH and you are good to go! If you want to use a package manager: macOS/homebrew users can use brew install kubernetes-helm. Windows/chocolatey users can use choco install kubernetes-helm. To rapidly get Helm up and running, start with the Quick Start Guide. See the installation guide for more options, including installing pre-releases. Docs Get started with the Quick Start guide or plunge into the complete documentation Roadmap The Helm roadmap uses Github milestones to track the progress of the project. Community, discussion, contribution, and support You can reach the Helm community and developers via the following channels: Kubernetes Slack: helm-users helm-dev charts Mailing Lists: Helm Mailing List Kubernetes SIG Apps Mailing List Developer Call: Thursdays at 9:30-10:00 Pacific. https://zoom.us/j/4526666954 Code of conduct Participation in the Kubernetes community is governed by the Kubernetes Code of Conduct.