Kubernetes ![Submit Queue Widget] ![GoDoc Widget] Kubernetes is an open source system for managing containerized applications across multiple hosts; providing basic mechanisms for deployment, maintenance, and scaling of applications. Kubernetes builds upon a decade and a half of experience at Google running production workloads at scale using a system called Borg, combined with best-of-breed ideas and practices from the community. Kubernetes is hosted by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF). If you are a company that wants to help shape the evolution of technologies that are container-packaged, dynamically-scheduled and microservices-oriented, consider joining the CNCF. For details about whos involved and how Kubernetes plays a role, read the CNCF announcement. To start using Kubernetes See our documentation on kubernetes.io. Try our interactive tutorial. Take a free course on Scalable Microservices with Kubernetes. To start developing Kubernetes The community repository hosts all information about building Kubernetes from source, how to contribute code and documentation, who to contact about what, etc. If you want to build Kubernetes right away there are two options: You have a working Go environment. $ go get -d k8s.io/kubernetes $ cd $GOPATH/src/k8s.io/kubernetes $ make You have a working Docker environment. $ git clone https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes $ cd kubernetes $ make quick-release For the full story, head over to the developers documentation. Support If you need support, start with the troubleshooting guide, and work your way through the process that weve outlined. That said, if you have questions, reach out to us one way or another.