About Laravel Note: This repository contains the core code of the Laravel framework. If you want to build an application using Laravel 5, visit the main Laravel repository. Laravel is a web application framework with expressive, elegant syntax. We believe development must be an enjoyable, creative experience to be truly fulfilling. Laravel attempts to take the pain out of development by easing common tasks used in the majority of web projects, such as: Simple, fast routing engine. Powerful dependency injection container. Multiple back-ends for session and cache storage. Database agnostic schema migrations. Robust background job processing. Real-time event broadcasting. Laravel is accessible, yet powerful, providing tools needed for large, robust applications. A superb combination of simplicity, elegance, and innovation gives you a complete toolset required to build any application with which you are tasked Learning Laravel Laravel has the most extensive and thorough documentation and video tutorial library of any modern web application framework. The Laravel documentation is in-depth and complete, making it a breeze to get started learning the framework. If youre not in the mood to read, Laracasts contains over 1100 video tutorials covering a range of topics including Laravel, modern PHP, unit testing, JavaScript, and more. Boost the skill level of yourself and your entire team by digging into our comprehensive video library. Contributing Thank you for considering contributing to the Laravel framework! The contribution guide can be found in the Laravel documentation. Code of Conduct In order to ensure that the Laravel community is welcoming to all, please review and abide by the Code of Conduct. Security Vulnerabilities If you discover a security vulnerability within Laravel, please send an e-mail to Taylor Otwell via taylor@laravel.com. All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed. License The Laravel framework is open-sourced software licensed under the MIT license.