Learn Anything Learn Anything is an Open Source Website built by community to Learn Anything with Interactive Maps. The goal of the website is to accelerate the rate at which people learn, by giving the most efficient paths one can take to gain full understanding of any given topic. To do this, we are creating the first of its kind community curated and Open Source Website focused on learning in a linear and progressive way. It searches over an open database of Connected and Interactive maps. For more information, you can read our White Paper, check our wiki and ask questions on our Discord server. Contributing Since this website is fully Open Source, you can help and add new and awesome features to the website. Please read our contribution guidelines for different ways on how you can do this. If you have never programmed before and this is your first Open Source project, dont be afraid to join in. There are many people that can help you both get started and make your first contribution. Curated Lists With our goal of providing the most efficient paths for Learning Anything, we also manage curation of various curated lists. Feel free to explore and improve them if you wish. API Here you can find all the public API endpoints we currently have. We will be adding more in the future. Below are some things people have built with the API we provide. If you built something yourself, feel free to add it to this list. - Alfred Workflow - Alfred workflow to search through all Learn Anything maps. - Albert Plugin - Albert plugin to search through all Learn Anything maps. Roadmap We share our Roadmap of things we are building now and hope to build next. Any help we can get on this is deeply appreciated. Keep this project going 💜 This project is built by the community, for the community and in our goals to make the most efficient paths and the best user experience possible in exploring the maps and finding the resources you need, we can only rely on donations made by our users to sustain this project. There are no advertisements and no sponsored content in this website as that would defeat our vision of making the best and most optimal learning tracks for learning any topic in the world. We have created a Patreon page where you can support our work. Any donation that you make to this project is incredibly valuable to keep this project going. We also have some awesome rewards that come with your support. Team Learn Anything would not be possible without a strong team of contributors helping push the project forward each day. Additionally, we have a core project team composed of: - Angelo Gazzola: Web developer, created a complete working version of the website. - Nikita Voloboev: Backend developer, curated the entire index of all the maps originally. Thank you 💜 To all the people who contributed to this project and this vision of liberating and visualising knowledge in this unique way. Deepest thanks goes to our Patrons: - Alfonso Gómez-Jordana License MIT © Learn Anything