The best Swiper component for React Native. react-native-swiper Roadmap see: ROADMAP.md Changelogs [1.5.6] Fix #16, #36, #371, #410, #411, #422, #468 Fix landscape orientation auto resize! (thanks @ahmed3mar, @timmywil) Add containerStyle prop to customize the view container. [1.5.5] Update: using PropTypes from prop-types and Change View.propTypes to ViewPropTypes [1.5.4] Added easily accessible pagination point manipulation: use dotColor / activeDotColor and dotStyle / activeDotStyle (thanks @denizs) Added scrollEnabled prop to documentation (thanks @ibandominguez) [1.5.3] Add loadMinimalLoader prop to customize <ActivityIndicator /> (thanks @Exilz) Disable autoplay timer when prop changes to false (thanks @dizlexik) Special thanks to @hypatiah for fixed some grammatical errors in README [1.5.2] Add yarn lock Fix jitter when quickly swiping back and forth between pages (iOS) (thanks @nemophrost) The first webview always reloaded when injecting the rest of the children (thanks @eosterberg) see more: CHANGELOG.md Show Cases Try these cases by yourself very easy, Just open examples/ios/swiper.xcodeproj in Xcode, then press Cmd + R; you may edit examples/index.ios.js for switch cases. examples/components/Basic examples/components/Swiper examples/components/SwiperNumber examples/components/Phone examples/components/LoadMinimal Getting Started Installation Basic Usage Properties Basic Custom basic style & content Pagination Autoplay Control buttons Props of Children Basic props of <ScrollView /> Supported ScrollResponder Examples Development Installation bash $ npm i react-native-swiper --save Basic Usage Install react-native first bash $ npm i react-native-cli -g Initialization of a react-native project bash $ react-native init myproject Then, edit myproject/index.ios.js, like this: ```jsx import React, { Component } from react; import { AppRegistry, StyleSheet, Text, View } from react-native; import Swiper from react-native-swiper; const styles = StyleSheet.create({ wrapper: { }, slide1: { flex: 1, justifyContent: center, alignItems: center, backgroundColor: #9DD6EB, }, slide2: { flex: 1, justifyContent: center, alignItems: center, backgroundColor: #97CAE5, }, slide3: { flex: 1, justifyContent: center, alignItems: center, backgroundColor: #92BBD9, }, text: { color: #fff, fontSize: 30, fontWeight: bold, } }) export default class Swiper extends Component { render(){ return ( Hello Swiper Beautiful And simple ); } } AppRegistry.registerComponent(myproject, () => Swiper); ``` Properties Basic | Prop | Default | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | horizontal | true | bool | If true, the scroll views children are arranged horizontally in a row instead of vertically in a column. | | loop | true | bool | Set to false to disable continuous loop mode. | | index | 0 | number | Index number of initial slide. | | showsButtons | false | bool | Set to true make control buttons visible. | | autoplay | false | bool | Set to true enable auto play mode. | | onIndexChanged | (index) => null | func | Called with the new index when the user swiped | Custom basic style & content | Prop | Default | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | width | - | number | If no specify default enable fullscreen mode by flex: 1. | | height | - | number | If no specify default fullscreen mode by flex: 1. | | style | {...} | style | See default style in source. | | loadMinimal | false | bool | Only load current index slide , loadMinimalSize slides before and after. | | loadMinimalSize | 1 | number | see loadMinimal | | loadMinimalLoader | <ActivityIndicator /> | element | Custom loader to display when slides arent loaded Pagination | Prop | Default | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | showsPagination | true | bool | Set to true make pagination visible. | | paginationStyle | {...} | style | Custom styles will merge with the default styles. | | renderPagination | - | function | Complete control how to render pagination with three params (index, total, context) ref to this.state.index / this.state.total / this, For example: show numbers instead of dots. | | dot | <View style={{backgroundColor:rgba(0,0,0,.2), width: 8, height: 8,borderRadius: 4, marginLeft: 3, marginRight: 3, marginTop: 3, marginBottom: 3,}} /> | element | Allow custom the dot element. | | activeDot | <View style={{backgroundColor: #007aff, width: 8, height: 8, borderRadius: 4, marginLeft: 3, marginRight: 3, marginTop: 3, marginBottom: 3,}} /> | element | Allow custom the active-dot element. | | dotStyle | - | object | Allow custom the active-dot element. | | dotColor | - | string | Allow custom the active-dot element. | | activeDotColor | - | string | Allow custom the active-dot element. | | activeDotStyle | - | object | Allow custom the active-dot element. | Autoplay | Prop | Default | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | autoplay | true | bool | Set to true enable auto play mode. | | autoplayTimeout | 2.5 | number | Delay between auto play transitions (in second). | | autoplayDirection | true | bool | Cycle direction control. | Control buttons | Prop | Default | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | showsButtons | true | bool | Set to true make control buttons visible. | | buttonWrapperStyle | {backgroundColor: transparent, flexDirection: row, position: absolute, top: 0, left: 0, flex: 1, paddingHorizontal: 10, paddingVertical: 10, justifyContent: space-between, alignItems: center} | style | Custom styles. | | nextButton | <Text style={styles.buttonText}>›</Text> | element | Allow custom the next button. | | prevButton | <Text style={styles.buttonText}>‹</Text> | element | Allow custom the prev button. | Props of Children | Prop | Default | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | style | {...} | style | Custom styles will merge with the default styles. | | title | {...} | element | If this parameter is not specified, will not render the title. | Basic props of <ScrollView /> | Prop | Default | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | horizontal | true | bool | If true, the scroll views children are arranged horizontally in a row instead of vertically in a column. | | pagingEnabled | true | bool | If true, the scroll view stops on multiples of the scroll views size when scrolling. This can be used for horizontal pagination. | | showsHorizontalScrollIndicator | false | bool | Set to true if you want to show horizontal scroll bar. | | showsVerticalScrollIndicator | false | bool | Set to true if you want to show vertical scroll bar. | | bounces | false | bool | If true, the scroll view bounces when it reaches the end of the content if the content is larger then the scroll view along the axis of the scroll direction. If false, it disables all bouncing even if the alwaysBounce* props are true. | | scrollsToTop | false | bool | If true, the scroll view scrolls to top when the status bar is tapped. | | removeClippedSubviews | true | bool | If true, offscreen child views (whose overflow value is hidden) are removed from their native backing superview when offscreen. This canimprove scrolling performance on long lists. | | automaticallyAdjustContentInsets | false | bool | Set to true if you need adjust content insets automation. | | scrollEnabled | true | bool | Enables/Disables swiping | @see: http://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/scrollview.html Supported ScrollResponder | Prop | Params | Type | Description | | :------------ |:---------------:| :---------------:| :-----| | onScrollBeginDrag | e / state / context | function | When animation begins after letting up | | onMomentumScrollEnd | e / state / context | function | Makes no sense why this occurs first during bounce | | onTouchStartCapture | e / state / context | function | Immediately after onMomentumScrollEnd | | onTouchStart | e / state / context | function | Same, but bubble phase | | onTouchEnd | e / state / context | function | You could hold the touch start for a long time | | onResponderRelease | e / state / context | function | When lifting up - you could pause forever before * lifting | Note: each ScrollResponder be injected with two params: state and context, you can get state and context(ref to swipers this) from params, for example: jsx var swiper = React.createClass({ _onMomentumScrollEnd: function (e, state, context) { console.log(state, context.state) }, render: function() { return ( <Swiper style={styles.wrapper} onMomentumScrollEnd ={this._onMomentumScrollEnd} ... </Swiper> ) } }) More ScrollResponder info, see: https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/master/Libraries/Components/ScrollResponder.js Methods scrollBy(index, animated) Scroll by relative index. Parameters: | Name | Type | default | Description | | :---- | :------: | :------: | :--- | | index | number | undefined | offset index | | animated | bool | true | offset index | Examples bash $ cd examples $ npm i $ react-native run-ios Quick start with examples. Development bash $ cd examples $ npm i $ npm run dev $ react-native run-ios Then launch simulator to preview. Note that you just need to edit the source file src/index.js, the change will auto sync to examples. And now that this project follows the standard code style, youd better prepare it for IDE. Contribution @leecade The main author. @rajkissu The secondary contributor. Questions Feel free to contact me or create an issue Inspired by nolimits4web/Swiper & Design material from Dribbble & made with ♥.