Games on GitHub Below is a list of open source games and game-related projects that can be found on GitHub - old school text adventures, educational games, 8-bit platform games, browser-based games, indie games, GameJam projects, add-ons/maps/hacks/plugins for commercial games, libraries, frameworks, engines, you name it. Contributing If youd like to add a repository to the list, please create an Issue, or fork this repository and submit a pull request. Help: MarkDown Help, Markdown Cheatsheet Table of Contents. Major Companies Browser-Based Boardgame Arcade FPS RPG MMORPG Strategy Racing Sandbox Puzzle Clicker Point and Click Others Native Action Arcade FPS MMORPG RPG Platform Puzzle/card/board Programming Sandbox Strategy Mobile Games Android IOS Chat bots Just The Source Frameworks/Engines/Libraries Maps/Hacks/Plugins/Utilities/All of the Things™ Major Companies A selection of major game studios, publishers, etc. using GitHub: Browser-Based Boardgame 3D Hartwing Chess Set - 3D chess game done in HTML/CSS/JS. Play it now! c4 - Connect Four game, with AI, in HTML/CSS/JS. Play it now! Desperate Gods - Free online board game that was designed to be played just like a board game in real-life: no rules are enforced by the computer. Play it now! Green Mahjong - Solitaire mahjong game done in HTML/CSS/JS. Kriegspiel - The game of imperfect information, the Kriegspiel chess variant. Play it now! Lichess - Free chess game using HTML5 & websockets, built with Scala, Play 2.1, MongoDB and Elasticsearch. Play it now! Arcade Alges Escapade - HTML5, JavaScript, GameJs arcade game where you control an Algae. Play it now! Alien Invasion - Demo Game for Mobile HTML5 Game Development. Play it now! Arashi - Arashi is a clone of the Arcade game Tempest. Play it now! Asteroids - Pure JavaScript asteroids. Play it now! Avabranch - GitHub Game Off 2012 entry. Play it now! Ball And Wall - Pure JavaScript arkanoid style game. Play it now! Breakout - Breakout multiplayer with HTML5. Play it now! Captain Rogers - Captain Rogers: Asteroid Belt of Sirius - HTML5 mobile game created using ImpactJS. Play it now! Cell Mates - Game made in 48 hours for the 2013 Global Game Jam. Ceros Snake - A remake of the iconic 70s Snake game. Play it now! CHANG€ - Intense game about the extreme life of supermarket cashiers. Play it now! Chromacore - 2D musical platformer set in a dark, black & white world that progressively becomes more colorful and happy through successful gameplay. Circus Charlie - HTML5 tribute created in Phaser. Play it now! Jolly Jumper - Made in Phaser. Play it now! Clumsy Bird - Flappy Bird clone in JavaScript using MelonJS. Play it now! Codename Lumberjack - Simple flash game written using Actionscript 3.0 and Flixel. Play it now! Coffee Snake - HTML5 snake game written in CoffeeScript. Play it now! Coil - HTML5 canvas game where you defeat enemies by wrapping enemies in your trail. Play it now! Color Quest - Infinite runner following a black and white pixels quest to change into a color pixel. Play it now! Core Commiter - GitHub Game Off 2012 Entry. Play it now! Crappy Bird - Flappy Bird clone in JavaScript and Canvas2D API. Play it now! Custom Tetris - Play the classic Tetris game the way you like it. Play it now! d3shooter - Asteroids style game in HTML5 as a demo of the d3 library. Play it now! Digger - HTML5 version of a Boulderdash game. Play it now! Drakonas - Classic shoot em up game build with the Three.js library. Play it now! Drill Bunny - Written in JavaScript and using the great Phaser library. Play it now! DuckHunt JS - DuckHunt ported to JS and HTML5 with a level creator. Play it now! EKG Runner - Game made in 48 hours for the 2013 Global Game Jam. Emberwind - HTML5 port of the indie platform game Emberwind. Play it now! ExecutiveMan - JavaScript MegaMan clone. Play it now! Flappy Bird - flappy bird in html5. Play it now! Fluid Table Tennis - Renders a table tennis game interacting with a full-color real-time fluid simulation at 60 FPS. Play it now! FlxInvaders - Very simple Flixel game inspired by the Taito classic. Play it now! FlxTeroids - Very simple Flixel game inspired by the classic arcade shooter. Play it now! Grave Robbers - Sort of GIRP-inspired tower defense. Play it now! Heal em All - Imagine, what if the cure exists? What if zombies plague can be stoped? Explore old, abandoned graveyard, heal as many zombies as you can, and find your way out. But be careful not to become one of them. Play it now! HotFix - Help Hotfix collect stargazers and avoid enemies. Collect commits to upgrade hotfix and add new features. Play it now! hurry! - Small but speedy arcade shooter. Play it now! Hyperspace Garbage Collector - General Hyperspace Waste Management Solutions. Play it now! I Spy A Ghost - an experimental p2p multiplayer game made in HTML5/Phaser using WebRTC. Play it now! Jekyll & Hyde Collide - Multi-layered infinite side-scroller. Play it now! JumpSuit - a multiplayer space shooter set in a wrapped universe. Play it now! Marble Soccer - Marble game for learning three.js. Mario 5 HTML - Infinite Mario in HTML5 JavaScript - using Canvas and Audio elements. Play it now! Mega Girl - Megaman inspired game. Play it now! Masonry JavaScript Tetris Clone - Tetris clone created using HTML5/JavaScript/Phaser. Play it now! Mode - Small(but sadly not that simple) demo game built on the Flixel framework. Play it now! Monster Wants Candy - Simple HTML5 game created with Phaser 2.0.7. Play it now! Newton Adventure - Play Newton, a very special hero who has the power to change gravity direction! Play it now! Octocat Jump - GitHub Game Off 2012 Entry. Play it now! Onslaught Arena - Fight off hordes of classic medieval monsters in this fast paced arcade shooter! Play it now! Pappu Pakia - Addictive game where you guide little Pappu around obstacles while collecting coins, stars, and berries and avoiding enemies known as Pakias. Play it now! Phaser Snake - JavaScript version of the snake game, created using the Phaser Engine. PixelPlatformer - Simple platformer game that demostrates the power of the Entity game engine. PolyBranch - Minimalist 3D game. Dodging branches may seem easy at first, but how long can you hold up as you approach terminal velocity? Play it now! Protocol 390 - To survive in Peoples Park, you must supply the prophet with change. Play it now! Raging Gardens - Javascript/HTML5 web browser game where a a hungry (ninja) rabbit farts too often. Play it now! Release Cycles - Abstract racing game where you fight against the clock and the computer to get as far as you can in a products life-cycle. Save The Forest - Save the burning forest! Play it now! Ski Free - JavaScript port of the classic PC Game, Skifree. Play it now! Snake - Clone of the classic Snake game. Play it now! Snake_new - Classic nokia snake game using web. Play it now! Space-Shooter - A classic shootem up space shooter build in HTML5 with multiplayer. Play it now! Spashal - Danger lurks around every corner in space. Play it now! Square Off! - multiplayer 1v1 air-hockey style game, place squares to deflect the ball. Play it now! SORADES 13K - Scrolling shooter in the vein of "Raptor: Call of the Shadows" and "Warning Forever". Play it now! Space Crusade - HTML5 game developped with PhaserJS Framework. Play it now! Space Invaders - Remake of Space Invaders in require.js. Play it now! Super Mario Bros - Super Mario Bros level one written with Backbone Game Engine. Play it now! Survivor - Playable HTML + CSS + JavaScript remake of a space-based "shoot-em-up" arcade game for Atari / Commodore 64 from 1982, including a level editor and design tool. Play it now! WPilot - A browser-based remake of the famous XPilot game, built with NodeJS and HTML5 zedinvaders - Game is based on our original comic ZED, seen inside "zero-episode" called "Game Over". Play it now! FullScreenMario – a free HTML 5 remake of Super Mario Bros with additional features. FPS BananaBread - Port of the Cube 2/Sauerbraten 3D game engine/first person shooter to the web, compiling C++ and OpenGL to JavaScript and WebGL using Emscripten. Play it now! RPG Diablo JS - Isometric minimal-code style game at html5 canvas and javascript. Play it now! Roguish - RPG/Rogue-like game created in JavaScript. Play it now! Room for Change - Randomly generated action RPG. Play it now! MMORPG BrowserQuest - HTML5/JavaScript multiplayer game experiment. Play it now! Tap Tap Adventure - Expansion of BrowserQuest. Play it now! Strategy Ancient Beast - Materialize and control beasts in order to defeat your opponents! Play it now! Command & Conquer - Clone of the popular RTS. Play it now! Freeciv-web - An turn-based strategy game implemented in HTML5. Play it now! Hexa Battle - A turn based dungeon crawler written with Typescript, using React and SVG. Play it now! Tower Defense - 3D Tower Defense build with Three.js in HTML5. Play it now! Racing HexGL - Futuristic HTML5 racing game by Thibaut Despoulain using HTML5, Javascript and WebGL. Play it now! Trigger Rally Online Edition - Fast arcade rally racing. Play it now! Sandbox 3d.city - 3d city builder game. Play it now! Blk Game - Multiplayer Javascript/WebGL voxel world game demo. Play it now! Cube Engine - 3D engine completely written in HTML5 without OpenGL. Play it now! Project Cube - Voxel game based on Minecraft made with HTML5. Play it now! Puzzle 0hh0 - Companion game to 0hh1 by Q42. Play it now! 0hh1 - Lovely little logic game by Q42. Play it now! 2048 - Sliding addition game Play it now! A Dark Room - Minimalist Text Adventure game written in JavaScript. Play it now! Anagramica - A word game and API for anagrams. Play it now! Astry - WebGL maze game built with Three.js and Box2dWeb. Play it now! Beatrix - Music game where you arrange the drums to catch the beats and play the right rhythm. Play it now! BitBot - HTML/JS game where you control a bot, which must sense, plan, and act. Play it now! BlicblockJS - JavaScript game based on Blicblock in The Sims 4. Match tetrominoes to clear the board. Play it now! Blockrain.js - Embed & play the classic game on your site. Simple as that. Play it now! Branching Out - Minimalist game about leaving home. Play it now! Clone Man - Puzzle, memory, retro game with simple graphics. Play it now! Couch 2048 - A physics-based puzzle, loosely related to the original 2048 game. Play it now! cube-composer - A puzzle game inspired by functional programming. Play it now! Drunken Viking - Retrace your drunken rampage in reverse time. Play it now! Ending - Roguelike puzzle game. Play it now! Follow me! A Simon Clone - Fully commented version of the famous game - Simon - in JavaScript, built using Phaser game engine. For King - Puzzle platformer game about a king in search for his lost crown. Play it now! Genetic Drift - Victor, an annoyed janitor dealing with a lot of annoyed clones and the problems that inevitably arise from genetic duplication. Will he make it home to feed his faithful pet companion?. Play it now! Hexahedral - Push down all the blocks in the minimum number of moves. Play it now! Hextris - Addictive puzzle game inspired by Tetris. Play it now! Infectors - Sokoban-like puzzle game developed with Phaser. Play it now! Lost! Beneath the Surface - Youre a firefly lost in the dark, beneath the surface and must find a way out of the mazes created by the horrors in the dark. Play it now! Maze 3D - A 3D maze game. Play it now! Monkey Rally - JavaScript game created for the Ludum Dare #28 jam. Play it now! Ned Et Les Maki - Puzzle game with isometric 3D graphics inspired by Sokoban. Play it now! Orbium - Modern version of the 90s game Log!cal. Play it now! Parity - A numbers puzzle game. Play it now! Pond - A narrow fellow in the Pond. Play it now! Pop Pop Win - Implementation of Minesweeper in Dart. Play it now! Prism - Match all the colors. Play it now! Push and Fork - Puzzle game in which you carry a fork, push blocks, and go back in time.. Play it now! Shape Experiment - The shape recognition reflex game. Play it now! Sliding Puzzle - Sliding blocks puzzle game. Play it now! Sudoku JS - A Sudoku puzzle game with a clean design and mobile devices in mind. Play it now Swap - New(award winning) take on the classic tile-based puzzle game, where you change which character youre controlling to reach your goal. Play it now! TransCube - 2d puzzle platformer based on the concept of transforming into different "blocks", with their unique properties, and making you way to the end of the level with the provided transformations. Play it now! untrusted - Meta-JavaScript adventure game by Alex Nisnevich and Greg Shuflin. Play it now! Matching Pairs - Made in HTML5 using Phaser as the framework, original assets and generated music. Play it now! Zoko - 3D version of Sokoban. Play it now! Zop - Connect like colors. Play it now! Clicker Particle Clicker - Addictive incremental game that teaches players the history of high energy particle physics. Play it now! Point and Click The House – Youre in a strange house. Can you find the way out? Is there any? Play it now! Others Beast - An homage to the 1984 ASCII game "BEAST" from Dan Baker, Alan Brown, Mark Hamilton and Derrick Shadel written in node. You have to squash little ASCII beasts between pushable blocks but watch you to not be eaten by them. binb - Competitive, multiplayer, realtime, guess the song game. Play it now! Dental Defender: Saga of the Candy Horde - HTML5 shooter/tower defense game for the #CandyJam. Play it now! Descensus 2 - A TypeScript 2D physics game. Play it now! Hauberk - Hauberk is a roguelike, an ASCII-art based procedurally-generated dungeon crawl game. Its written in Dart and runs in your browser. HeartLine - Game made in 48 hours for the 2013 Global Game Jam. Psiral - JavaScript/HTML5 game, GitHub Game Off 2 winner. Play it now! CyberPong - Unusual Ping Pong game, adaptable with Makey Makey Kit. Play it now! Squirts - Well-known indie game implemented in JavaScript. Play it now! The Killer - Flash/ActionScript3-based "nongame". Play it now! Turkey Cooking Simulator - You have been invited to craft the centerpiece of the American thanksgiving dinner, the turkey. Woo your girlfriend / boyfriend and be judged by your future in-laws! Apply your culinary expertise to impress your family. Play it now! Native Action OpenTomb - An open-source Tomb Raider 1-5 engine remake. Arcade hēXōn - A twin-stick-shooter with 3D graphics and a classic feel. C-Dogs SDL - Overhead shoot-em-up port of the classic DOS game. Chaos Projectile - 2D runngun action game with RPG elements. Clonepoint - Libre clone of Gunpoint, a game in which you hack and punch your way to victory. DynaDungeons - Bomberman clone using the awesome open source Godot game engine. Duckmarines - A ChuChu Rocket remake for PC. Epic Inventor - Indie, side-scrolling, action, RPG. Falling Time - Arcade game inspired by Fall Down. Kroniax - Sidescrolling skill-based game. Missile Command - Missile Command clone in Lua with LÖVE. Mystic Mine - Single and multiplayer action game with mining carts. OpenLieroX - Liero clone, like realtime Worms, or a 2D Quake. OSGG - Oldskool Gravity Game, very difficult lander game in glorious vector graphics. Savage Wheels - 2D car crashing game similar to the old classic Destruction Derby. Space Shooter - Cross platform, 2D space shooting game made using pygame. SDL-Ball - Pretty looking breakout clone available in most distributions. Taisei - Fan-made, open Source clone of the Touhou series. Teeworlds - Online multi-player platform 2D shooter. Wannabe Tempest - Tempest(80s arcade game) clone in Java, and a small project for playing with git. Witch Blast - Roguelite dungeon crawl shooter similar to The Binding of Isaac. FPS AssaultCube - Total conversion of Wouter van Oortmerssens FPS called Cube. Freedoom - Free software FPS based on the classic Doom engine. GlPortal - A modern 3D game and engine with portals written in C++. ioquake3 - The free software FPS engine that can be used to play Quake 3, or make your own game. LWJake2 - LWJGL port of Quake 2. OpenLara - Tomb Raider open-source engine Play it now! openspades - Compatible client of Ace of Spades 0.75. Red Eclipse - Free, casual arena shooter featuring parkour. Smokin Guns - Semi-realistic simulation of the "Old Wests" great atmosphere. Turtle Arena - Third-person action game using the Spearmint engine. Unvanquished - Fast-paced, futuristic FPS with RTS elements. Warsow - Fast-paced FPS in a futuristic cartoonish world. MMORPG Open Meridian - The first 3D MMORPG, released in 1996 and open sourced in 2012. Forked in 2013, Actively developed. Play it now! Meridian 59 - The first 3D MMORPG, released in 1996 and open sourced in 2012. The original codebase for Meridian 59, less frequently updated. Play it now! Stendhal - a fun friendly and free 2D multiplayer online adventure game with an old school feel. Play it now! RPG Angband - Single-player dungeon exploration game in the universe of JRR Tolkien. Arx Fatalis - Cross-platform port of Arx Fatalis, a first-person role-playing game. Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead - Roguelike set in a post-apocalyptic world. Cendric - Platformer-RPG in a fantasy setting with puzzle elements. Crystal Picnic - Lighthearted and colourful tribute to the classic era of action RPGs. Dungeon Crawl Stone Soup - Single-player roguelike dungeon exploration game with a larger focus on combat compared to other popular roguelikes. Dungeon Monkey Eternal - Party-based fantasy roguelike role-playing game. Egoboo - Cool 3D dungeon crawling game in the spirit of NetHack. Flare RPG - Fantasy action RPG game with its own engine. Freeablo - Open-source implementation of the Diablo I engine. Monster RPG 2 - Turn-based J-RPG in a fantasy universe. NetHack - Single-player roguelike dungeon exploration game and one of the most popular games in its genre. Open MW - Reimplementation of the game Morrowind. The Legend of Zelda: Mystery of Solarus DX - sequel to The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past released on the SNES, written in lua and created with the Solarus engine Valyria Tear - Single-player medieval-fantasy 2D J-RPG. Platform Captain Holetooth - A fun, explorative and story-driven platformer with minigames. Made with the Godot Engine. Commander Genius - Commander Keen compatible clone. Elemental One - Built with the Phaser HTML5 game framework. Play it now! Escape of the cat - Hardcore oldschool platformer on INSTEAD. Frogatto - Action-adventure game, starring a certain quixotic frog. Gish - Award-winning physics platformer. Journey to the Center of Hawkthorne - This 2d platformer is based on Communitys Digital Estate Planning episodebuilt using the LÖVE game engine. Mario-Level-1 - First level of Super Mario Bros made with Python and Pygame. HFT Mario Party - a remixed local multiplayer reimagining of the original Mario Bros. Sky Engine - Custom engine 2D platform game made with OpenGL. The Legend of Edgar - 2D platform game with a persistent world. The Secret Chronicles of Dr. M. - A 2D platform game in classic style. SuperTux - Classic 2D jumpnrun sidescroller with Tux. Puzzle/card/board 2048-cli - CLI version of the game 2048 for your Linux terminal. 2048-in-terminal - CLI version of the game 2048 made right. Castles of Dr. Creep - The Castles of Dr. Creep Dominion - C# implementation of Dominion, a board/card game. EbbeFlut - Really nice board game implemented in a bad way a VERY long time ago. IRMINGARD - Patience card game written in Ruby. Minilens - Cute puzzle platformer starring a cleaning robot on post-apocalyptic Earth. PuzzleDash - Match-3 puzzle game built in the Dash engine. tictactoe - Graphical tic-tac-toe AI which never loses Wizznic - Most awesome puzzle game. PokerTH - Implementation of Texas Holdem supporting (online) multiplayer and botplay. Play it now! Racing Stunt Rally - Rally game with Track Editor, based on VDrift and OGRE. SuperTuxKart - Free 3D kart racing game featuring open source mascots. Programming CengBall - Soccer programming game with 2D simulation. Sandbox Blackvoxel - Sandbox game based on a molecular voxel interaction engine. Craft - Simple Minecraft clone written in C using modern OpenGL. Endless Sky - Space trading and combat game similar to the classic Escape Velocity series. Freeminer - Sandbox game inspired by Minecraft. Minecraft - Simple Minecraft-inspired demo written in Python and Pyglet. Manic Digger - A multiplayer block-building voxel game, Minecraft clone. Minetest - Infinite-world block sandbox game with survival and crafting. Pycraft - A Minecraft-inspired game for the terminal. Rigs of Rods - Soft-Body physics simulator for vehicles and more. Space Engineers - Space Engineers is a voxel-based sandbox game set in an asteroid field in space. Terasology - Voxel world game engine inspired by Minecraft and others with fancy graphic effects and a heavy focus on extensibility. The Powder Toy - Falling-sand physics sandbox game. Strategy 0 A.D. - 3D RTS similar to Age of Empires II Caesaria - Remake of the popular citybuilder and economic sim Caesar III. Colobot - A real-time strategy game with programmable bots. CorsixTH - Clone of Theme Hospital. Curse of War - Fast-paced action strategy game with ncurses and SDL frontends. Harris - Strategy game based around the actions of RAF Bomber Command in the Second World War. Hedgewars - A turn based strategy, artillery, action and comedy game. KaM Remake - RTS game remake of “Knights and Merchants” written in Delphi from scratch. KeeperRL - Roguelike dungeon builder inspired by Dwarf Fortress. Last Colony - RTS game with both a single player campaign mode as well as a multiplayer mode, created entirely in HTML5 and JavaScript. Play it now! MegaGlest - MegaGlest real-time strategy game engine (cross-platform, 3-d). Micropolis - City-building game based on the original code for SimCity. openage - Clone of the Age of Empires II engine. [OpenDungeons] (https://github.com/OpenDungeons/OpenDungeons) - Open source game inspired by Dungeon Keeper - Dark, damp and dangerous... OpenFodder - Open-source implementation of Cannon Fodder OpenRA - Open-source implementation of the Red Alert engine using .NET/mono and OpenGL. Runs on Windows, Linux and OSX. OpenTTD - OpenTTD is a transport simulation game based upon the popular game Transport Tycoon Deluxe, written by Chris Sawyer. OpenXcom - Clone of the original X-COM. Pax Britannica - Underwater one-button real-time strategy game. PCOTM (Phone Case of the Monster) - Ruby game, where you play as a phone-collecting monster. Pioneer - Game of lonely space adventure. Polly-B-Gone - Physics platform game about a plucky wheeled robot named Polly. OpenRCT2 - Open source recreation of Rollercoaster Tycoon 2. Race into Space - Turn-based space race strategy game originally by Interplay. Seven Kingdoms: Ancient Adversaries - Classic RTS game liberated in 2009. Source of Tales - Entry in the Liberated Pixel Cup 2012. Tanks of Freedom - Turn-based strategy game in isometric pixel-art style. The Battle for Wesnoth - Turn-based strategy game with a high fantasy theme. Unknown Horizons - 2D isometric RTS economic strategy game written in C++ & Python, built on the Flexible Isometric Free Engine. Voxeliq - Block-based game engine implementation developed with C#. Wargus - Wargus is a Warcraft2 Mod that allows you to play Warcraft2 with the Stratagus engine. Warzone 2100 - Postnuclear realtime strategy. Wyrmsun - Strategy game based on history, mythology and fiction. Zero-K - Open source RTS game with physical projectiles and smart units Others OpenNotrium - Open source version of Notrium, a top-down survival game. Mobile Games Android ChaseWhisplyProject - Chase Whisply is a FPS. You have to seek, find and kill the ghosts living around you. Colorphun - ColorPhun is a simple color based Android Game. Game of Life - Conways Game of Life with editable rules Gidi Games - Lexis, TicTacToe, Puzzlemania - a collection of 3 board games done with Cocos2d for Android. Green Mahjong - Solitaire mahjong game done in HTML/CSS/JS. Green Wall - Weirdly addictive arcade-style android game, where you fling fruit at a wall. Project developed using Android Studio 1.0. Memory Game - Simple and beautiful memory game for kids. Pixel Dungeon - Traditional roguelike game with pixel-art graphics and simple interface. PuzzleGame - Slider puzzle game implementation created with Cocos2d for Android. Wannabe Tempest - Clone of 80s coin-op arcade game Tempest(80s arcade game). IOS Bat Loves Bugs - Arcade game about a bug-craving bat. Bridges - Puzzle game with bridges, houses, tolls, and subways for iOS. Canabalt - Release of Canabalt for iOS. Choose Figure - Simple logic game. Choose the right figure. Train your attention. Doom - Doom Classic for iOS. DrugsNRock - Simple multiplayer rhythm game designed during the 2013 Global Game Jam. FinalFighter - Tank deathmatch battle game developed using Cocos2D. Frogatto - Action-adventure game, starring a certain quixotic frog. Gorillas - iPhone(or iPod touch) port of the popular old QBasic game. Green Mahjong - Solitaire mahjong game done in HTML/CSS/JS. Light Jockey - iOS Auditorium-like game. Lumio - Puzzle game for iOS developed using Cocos2D. Available free on the App Store. Sakura Fly - iOS action game developed using SpriteKit. Available free on the App Store. Wolfenstein 3D - Wolfenstein 3D for iOS Source Release. Chat bots c4bot - Chat bot that plays Connect Four with you, works in web chat, Facebook Messenger, Skype, and Telegram. Play it now! Just The Source Aquaria - Breath-taking underwater fantasy game. Winner of the Grand Prize at the 2007 Independent Games Festival. Doom 3 - Doom 3 GPL source code release. ID Software - Includes Doom, Quake, Wolfenstein and more. Jedi Academy - Jedi Academy source only, mirror of SourceForge from Raven Software. Jedi Outcast - Jedi Outcast source only, mirror of SourceForge from Raven Software. MaNGOS - Full featured World of Warcraft server. Miner Wars 2081 - For modders of Miner Wars 2081, a 6DOF action-survival space-shooter simulation-game set in the year 2081. OpenJK - Community maintained fork of Jedi Academy and Jedi Outcast development. Prince of Persia - Source code for the original Prince of Persia game that was written on the Apple II, in 6502 assembly language, between 1985-89. UFO RUN - Real time multiplayer with Nextpeer. Frameworks/Engines/Libraries Akihabara - Set of libraries, tools and presets to create pixelated indie-style 8/16-bit era games in Javascript. Allegro 5 - C++ libraries to make 2D games(graphics, sound, etc.). ammo.js - Direct port of the Bullet Physics engine to JavaScript using Emscripten. Atomic Engine - features 2D and 3D rendering, standards compliant JavaScript, full Player and Editor source on GitHub, Windows & Mac Editors, with deployment to Windows, Mac, WebGL, Android, and iOS from the editor. Babylon.js - Complete JavaScript framework for building 3D games with HTML 5 and WebGL. bgfx - Cross-platform rendering library. Chilli Works - An open source, cross-platform game engine designed for indie developers. Chipmunk Physics - Simple, lightweight, fast and portable 2D rigid body physics library written in C. ChoiceScript - A language/engine for developing text-based multiple-choice interactive novels Cocos2d for Android - Cocos2d for Android, based on cocos2d-android-0.82, and now ported from cocos2d-iphone 0.99.4. Cocos2d for iPhone - Framework for building 2D games, demos, and other graphical/interactive applications for iPod Touch, iPhone, iPad and Mac. It is based on the cocos2d design but instead of using python it, uses objective-C. Cocos2d for HTML5 - Cocos2d for Web Browsers. Built using JavaScript. Cocos2d-x - Multi-platform framework for building 2d games, interactive books, demos and other graphical applications. It is based on cocos2d-iphone, but instead of using Objective-C, it uses C++. It works on iOS, Android, Windows Phone, OS X, Windows and Linux. Crafty - JavaScript game library that can help you create games in a structured way. CutJS - Lightweight and fast 2D HTML5 rendering engine for cross-platform game development. Dash - Free and open 3D game engine written in D. Duality - 2D Game Development Framework. EaselJS - Library to make working with the Canvas element easier. EntityJS - HTML5 JavaScript game engine utlizing the entity-component design. Evennia MUD/MU* Creation System - Library for creating online multiplayer text games (MUD, MUSH, MUX, MUCK, MOO etc) in pure Python. Flare - Free/Libre Action Roleplaying Engine. Flashpunk - Free ActionScript 3 library designed for developing 2D Flash games. Flixel - Game-making library written entirely in ActionScript 3. GameJS - GameJs is a JavaScript library for writing 2D games or other interactive graphic applications for the HTML Canvas inspired by PyGame. GamePlay - Cross-platform, C++ game framework/engine for creating 2D/3D mobile and desktop games. GemRB - Cross-platform implementation of Biowares Infinity Engine. GenesisEngine - GenesisEngine allows you to create and explore procedurally-generated planetary systems, from ground level all the way out into space. Experiments with procedurally-generated worlds, XNA, and design patterns. Gladiator 3D - Canvas based JavaScript ray casting engine for pseudo 3D games. Godot - Fully featured, MIT licensed, game engine. It focuses on having great tools, and a visual oriented workflow that can export to PC, Mobile and Web platforms with no hassle. The editor, language and APIs are feature rich, yet simple to learn, allowing you to become productive in a matter of hours. HaxeFlixel - Free, cross-platform 2D game engine powered by Haxe and OpenFL http://www.haxeflixel.com/ JiGS - Online RPG and Trading Game Engine built in PHP. jMonkeyEngine - Cutting edge, cross-platform 3D game engine for adventurous Java developers. kiwi.js - Blazingly fast mobile & desktop browser based HTML5 game framework. It uses CocoonJS for publishing to the AppStore. libGDX - Desktop/Android/HTML5/iOS Java game development framework. libRocket - C++ user interface package based on the HTML and CSS standards. It is designed as a complete solution for any projects interface needs. libSDL2pp - C++11 bindings for SDL 2.0. lycheeJS - Free HTML5 + native OpenGL Game Engine for Embedded, Console, Mobile, Server and Desktop. Matter.js - Matter.js is a JavaScript 2D rigid body physics engine for the web. melonJS - HTML5 game framework for 2D games. MonoGame - XNA Implementation for Mono based platforms (supports iOS, Android, Linux, and started work on PS Suite and NaCli ). Oimo.js - Lightweight 3d physics engine for javascript. OpenRTS - Real-Time Strategy game 3D engine coded in java 7. Oxygine - C++ engine and framework for 2D games on iOS, Android, Windows, Linux and Mac. panda.js - Free HTML5 game engine for mobile and desktop with Canvas and WebGL rendering. Phaser - Phaser is a fun, free and fast 2D game framework for making HTML5 games for desktop and mobile web browsers, supporting Canvas and WebGL rendering. PhysicsJS - Modular, extendable, and easy-to-use physics engine for JavaScript. pixi.js - Super fast HTML 5 2D rendering engine that uses webGL with canvas fallback. Plasma - Cyan Worldss Plasma game engine. PlayCanvas - 3D WebGL game engine with online toolset. QICI Engine - free JavaScript game engine library with a web-based comprehensive suite of toolset for making HTML5 games. Quasi-Engine - a QtQuick framework that intends to be a complete toolset to ease 2d game development. Renpy - A Visual Novel Engine, written in python, for both mobile (iOS beta) and desktop platforms. SFML - Simple and Fast Multimedia Library. Solarus - An Action-RPG game engine written in C++. Spring - Real Time Strategy game engine. Starling - ActionScript 3 library that mimics the conventional Flash display tree architecture, can be deployed to mobile devices (iOS, Android), the desktop (Windows, OS X), and to the browser (via the Flash plugin). Superpowers - TypeScript & ThreeJS powered game engine and framework (2D & 3D with WebGL) Tesseract - Make mapping more fun by using modern dynamic rendering techniques, sothat you can get instant feedback on lighting changes, not just geometry. three.js - JavaScript 3D library used in many browser games. tiled - Tiled is a general purpose tile map editor. It is meant to be used for editing maps of any tile-based game, be it an RPG, a platformer or a Breakout clone. Torque 2D - MIT Licensed version of Torque 2D from GarageGames. Torque 3D - MIT Licensed version of Torque 3D from GarageGames. Turbulenz Engine - HTML5 game engine and server-side APIs available in JavaScript and TypeScript for building and distributing 2D and 3D games. Urho3D - Urho3D is a free lightweight, cross-platform 2D and 3D game engine implemented in C++ and released under the MIT license. Greatly inspired by OGRE and Horde3D. Wurfel Engine An isometric game engine for games with an open world made of blocks or voxels. XLE - Rendering engine with advanced features such as Image Based Lighting, dynamic area lights, and a node based material editor. Flexible and modular, it is designed to drop into existing solutions. XLE is the "hackable" engine, intended to be customised for specialised requirements. Maps/Hacks/Plugins/Utilities/All of the Things™ Bfxr - Flash + AIR sound effects generator. Based on Sfxr. Brood War API - C++ framework to interact with the Real Time Strategy (RTS) game Starcraft: Broodwar. FlxCollisions - Simple set of 2d physics + collision demos for flixel v2.0. Play it now! Gamertag - Gem for retrieving Xbox Live Gamertag information from various sources. Greenworks - A node.js/nw.js addon allowing you to integrate HTML5 game with Steamworks. Halo::Reach::API - Ruby gem for interacting with the Halo:Reach API. IodineGBA - GameBoy Advance emulator written entirely in JavaScript and powered by HTML5. itch - An electron cross-platform game downloader, installer, and library manager for itch.io written in TypeScript. JavaScript Breakouts - Collection of JavaScript engine implementations of Breakout. Leaderboard(Java) - Leaderboards backed by Redis(in Java). Leaderboard(PHP) - Leaderboards backed by Redis(in PHP). Leaderboard(Python) - Leaderboards backed by Redis(in Python). Leaderboard(Ruby) - Leaderboards backed by Redis(in Ruby). Leaderboard(Scala) - Leaderboards backed by Redis (in Scala). libfreenect - Drivers and libraries for the Xbox Kinect device on WIndows, Linux, and OS X. OpenEmu - Project to bring game emulation to OS X as a first class citizen. Mudlet - A cross-platform, open source, and super fast MUD (text-only MMORPGs) client with scripting in Lua. stats.js - JavaScript performance monitor. Tassadar - Starcraft 2 replay parser written in pure Ruby. World of Warcraft Addons - Various World of Warcraft addons written in Lua. World of Warcraft API Docs - Public documentation for the RESTful web service provided as part of the World of Warcraft community site. License This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.