LTMorphingLabel A morphing UILabel subclass written in Swift. The .Scale effect mimicked Apples QuickType animation of iOS 8 in WWDC 2014. New morphing effects are available as Swift extensions. enum LTMorphingEffect: Int, Printable .Scale - default .Evaporate .Fall .Pixelate .Sparkle .Sparkle is built on top of QuartzCore.CAEmitterLayer. Theres also a SpriteKit powered version here. .Burn .Anvil Requirements Xcode 9.3 iOS 8.0+ Installation Carthage Add this line to your Cartfile: github "lexrus/LTMorphingLabel" Read the official instruction CocoaPods Install the latest release of CocoaPods: gem install cocoapods Add this line to your Podfile: pod LTMorphingLabel Install the pod: pod install Usage Change the class of a label from UILabel to LTMorphingLabel; Programmatically set a new String to its text property. Unit tests Open the project with Xcode then press command + u. Alternative Even though this lib was used in a few products on App Store, its still an experimental project. Frankly, therere some nice competitors out there guarantee both compatibility and stability. And the most outstanding one is ZCAnimatedLabel. Id like to recommend it for production use. And finally, an Android port. Third Party Bindings React Native You may now use this library with React Native via the module here Donation Buy me a coffee? Here is my wallet: BTC: 3MnMu3Q1UK63dRbwjhwqWSBVLWxy8SPk6b ETH: 0x2884F4bE2cBA05395EE0EF997a44aA9B90fD2E2A License This code is distributed under the terms and conditions of the MIT license.