IINA IINA is the modern video player for macOS. Website · Releases · Telegram Group Features Based on mpv, a powerful media player Designed for modern macOS (10.10+) Aims to offer the best user experience All the features you need for videos, audios, subtitles, playlist, chapters and so on MPV config files and script system are available for advanced users Written in Swift, followed up on new technologies like Touch Bar, Force Touch, Picture-in-picture, etc. Still in active development Build Use pre-compiled dylibs Please make sure CocoaPods is installed. gem sudo gem install cocoapods homebrew brew install cocoapods Run pod install in project root directory. pod install Open .xcworkspace file. Theoretically no extra work is needed. If you are unwilling to use the provided dylibs, follow the instructions below. Build with the latest mpv Install mpv brew install mpv --with-uchardet Feel free to include any other libraries if you like. Copy latest header files into libmpv/include/mpv/ other/parse_doc.rb This script will fetch the latest mpv documentation and generate MPVOption.swift, MPVCommand.swift and MPVProperty.swift. This is only needed when updating libmpv. Note that if the API changes, the player source code may also need to be changed. other/change_lib_dependencies.rb This script will deploy the depended libraries into libmpv/libs. Make sure you have a phase copying of all these dylibs in Xcodes build settings. Contributing Please read CONTRIBUTING.md before opening an issue or pull request. Please ask for permission from the author before starting working on a pull request to make sure that theres not someone else working on the same feature. Any feedback/contribution is appreciated! Translation Please check Translation Status first. If a language is labeled as "Need help", then please feel free to update the translation. If it doesnt contain your language, it will be awesome to submit a new translation. Please contact the author (@lhc70000) if you dont know how to submit translations using GitHub.