Matter.js is a JavaScript 2D rigid body physics engine for the web brm.io/matter-js Demos - Gallery - Features - Plugins - Install - Usage - Examples - Docs - Wiki - References - License Demos Mixed Shapes Solid Shapes Concave SVG Paths Concave Terrain Concave Bodies Compound Bodies Newtons Cradle Wrecking Ball Slingshot Game Rounded Corners Views Time Scaling Body Manipulation Composite Manipulation Raycasting Sprites Pyramid Car Catapult Reverse Gravity Bridge Avalanche Basic Soft Bodies Cloth Events Collision Filtering Chains Ball Pool Stack Circle Stack Compound Stack Restitution Friction Air Friction Static Friction Sleeping Grid Broadphase Beach Balls Stress 1 Stress 2 Sensors Gallery See how others are using matter.js physics Les métamorphoses de Mr. Kalia by Lab212 for Google 4ify by Supernatural for Channel 4 Adobe Analytics Live Stream by Rain for Adobe Blood Sweat & Tools Interactive by Jam3 for Discovery Oracle OpenWorld Experiment by Ed Jones for Oracle Pablo The Flamingo by Nathan Gordon Goblins and Grottos by Psychic Software masQueLaCara by Zach Lieberman for Art Blocks Houston #GIFMYLIVE by Bonhomme for Arte Hype by Tumult more... Features Rigid bodies Compound bodies Composite bodies Concave and convex hulls Physical properties (mass, area, density etc.) Restitution (elastic and inelastic collisions) Collisions (broad-phase, mid-phase and narrow-phase) Stable stacking and resting Conservation of momentum Friction and resistance Events Constraints Gravity Sleeping and static bodies Plugins Rounded corners (chamfering) Views (translate, zoom) Collision queries (raycasting, region tests) Time scaling (slow-mo, speed-up) Canvas renderer (supports vectors and textures) MatterTools for creating, testing and debugging worlds World state serialisation (requires resurrect.js) Cross-browser and Node.js support (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, IE8+) Mobile-compatible (touch, responsive) An original JavaScript physics implementation (not a port) Install Download the edge build (master) or get a stable release and include the script in your web page: <script src="matter.js" type="text/javascript"></script> You can also install using the package managers Bower and NPM. bower install matter-js npm install matter-js Usage Visit the Getting started wiki page for a minimal usage example which should work in both browsers and Node.js. Also see the Running and Rendering wiki pages, which show how to use your own game and rendering loops. Tutorials See the list of tutorials. Examples See the examples directory which contains the source for all demos. There are even more examples on codepen. Plugins The engine can be extended through plugins, see these resources: Using plugins Creating plugins List of plugins matter-plugin-boilerplate Documentation See the API Documentation and the wiki Building and Contributing To build you must first install node.js and gulp, then run npm install This will install the required build dependencies, then run gulp dev to spawn a development server. For information on contributing see CONTRIBUTING.md. Changelog To see whats new or changed in the latest version, see the changelog. References See the wiki page on References. License Matter.js is licensed under The MIT License (MIT) Copyright (c) 2014 Liam Brummitt This license is also supplied with the release and source code. As stated in the license, absolutely no warranty is provided.