libGDX is a cross-platform Java game development framework based on OpenGL (ES) that works on Windows, Linux, Mac OS X, Android, your WebGL enabled browser and iOS. Getting Started Setup your development environment (Eclipse, Intellij IDEA, NetBeans) Create a libGDX project Import, Run, Debug and Package your project Eclipse Intellij IDEA NetBeans Commandline Read the Wiki Downloads As we switched to Gradle, theres no need to download libGDX itself anymore. For those of you who still prefer the old way of doing things, you can get libGDX from the official download site. Documentation The Wiki contains all the information youll need to write a libGDX game. You can contribute to the Wiki directly here on GitHub! We also provide Javadocs online. The Javadocs are also bundled as source Jars with every libGDX distribution for consumption in your favorite IDE. News & Community You can follow the latest news about libGDX on the blog. Follow @badlogicgames for real-time updates. You can get help on our forum and talk to other libGDX users on our IRC channel #libgdx at irc.freenode.net. Reporting Issues Use the issue tracker here on GitHub to report issues. Make sure you read the Getting Help article that walks you through the process or properly reporting an issue. Contributing & Working from Source libGDX has a strong developer community constantly improving the code base. We love to get any and all help we can. The Contributing article describes the process of helping libGDX to become even better. To contribute, you need to work with libGDX sources directly, something normal users do not have to go through. The Working with the Source article will give you directions. You can also contribute financially to our infrastructure (build server, web server, test devices) via our Patreon! License libGDX is licensed under the Apache 2 License, meaning you can use it free of charge, without strings attached in commercial and non-commercial projects. We love to get (non-mandatory) credit in case you release a game or app using libgdx! Supported By libGDX is supported by helpful 3rd parties via code contributions, free licenses, test devices and so forth. Make our supporters happy and visit their sites! Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.