FileDownloader Android multi-task file download engine. []build_status_link 中文文档 FileDownloader2 Now, FileDownloader2-OkDownload is released, okdownload will contain all advantage on the FileDownloader and beyond. Because of FileDownloader unit-test coverage is very low, so all farther features and enhances will be achieved on the okdownload instead of FileDownloader, and FileDownloader will only focuses on bug fixes. DEMO Installation FileDownloader is installed by adding the following dependency to your build.gradle file: groovy dependencies { implementation com.liulishuo.filedownloader:library:1.7.4 } Snapshots of the development version are available in Sonatypes snapshots repository, you can include on your gradle project through: groovy repositories { maven { url "https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/" } } Open customize component From now on, FileDownloader support following components to be customized by yourself: | Name | Interface | Default Impl | --- | --- | --- | Connection | FileDownloadConnection | FileDownloadUrlConnection | OutputStream | FileDownloadOutputStream | FileDownloadRandomAccessFile | Database | FileDownloadDatabase | RemitDatabase | ConnectionCountAdapter | ConnectionCountAdapter | DefaultConnectionCountAdapter | IdGenerator | IdGenerator | DefaultIdGenerator If you want to use okhttp as your connection component, the simplest way is this repo. If you dont want to use any database on FileDownloader(the database on FileDownloader is used for persist tasks breakpoint info) just using NoDatabaseImpl.java How to valid it? Just create your own DownloadMgrInitialParams.InitCustomMaker and put those customized component to it, finally init the FileDownloader with it: FileDownloader#init Welcome PR If you can improve the unit test for this project would be great. Comments as much as possible. Commit message format follow: AngularJSs commit message convention . The change of each commit as small as possible. Usage By default, the FileDownloadService runs on the separate process, if you want to run it on the main process, just configure on the filedownloader.properties, and you can use FileDownloadUtils.isDownloaderProcess(Context) to check whether the FileDownloadService can run on the current process. For more readable, Moved to Wiki. LICENSE ``` Copyright (c) 2015 LingoChamp Inc. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. ```