MEAN2 The Full Stack Javascript Framework. MEAN started out as a combination of MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and Node.js. With MEAN2 we are providing the ability to mix and match additional frontend frameworks, databases and technologies. We aim to create a robust, flexible and scalable full-stack javascript solution. The default MEAN stack you get out of the box can work with either Angular or React and is built with the following technologies... Node.js Angular4 web starter MongoDB Express Innograph (uses GraphQL for schema standartization) Bit - (Manages js components, services and schemas) If youre looking for the classic angular-1.x version of mean, it has moved to this 1.x branch. Prerequisite Technologies Git MongoDB Node 6.x npm 3.x ( or yarn) If you have an older version of Node.js and NPM, you can use Node Version Manager NVM to use multiple node versions on your system. MEAN2 only supports Node 6.x or higher versions. Installation To start your application with MEAN, you need to clone the base MEAN repository from Github. This repository contains all the packages, modules and also a sample code base in order to start and make it easy to develop your application. Following the steps below will guide you to install the latest MEAN version. git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/linnovate/mean.git cd mean npm install npm start If all the packages and modules installed successfully, your default web browser will open and you can see the default MEAN application at http://localhost:3000. This is the default port unless you change that manually. Deploy on a public cloud A pre-configured server with a stable version of MEAN.IO is available for you to start developing quickly. Click the following button to deploy MEAN.IO on Microsoft Azure public cloud: Additional Tools used in MEAN Mongoose - Mongoose provides a straight-forward, schema-based solution to model your application data. It includes built-in type casting, validation, query building, business logic hooks and more, out of the box. Bootstrap - Bootstrap is an open source toolkit for developing with HTML, CSS, and JS. Quickly prototype your ideas or build your entire app with our Sass variables and mixins, responsive grid system, extensive prebuilt components, and powerful plugins built on jQuery. Karma - A simple tool that allows you to execute JavaScript code in multiple real browsers. Mainly on testing purposes. Protractor - Protractor is an end-to-end test framework for Angular and AngularJS applications. Protractor runs tests against your application running in a real browser, interacting with it as a user would. Jasmine - Jasmine is a behavior-driven development framework for testing JavaScript code. It does not depend on any other JavaScript frameworks Istanbul - Istanbul instruments your ES5 and ES2015+ JavaScript code with line counters, so that you can track how well your unit-tests exercise your codebase. TypeScript - TypeScript is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript. Webpack - webpack is a static module bundler for modern JavaScript applications. When webpack processes your application, it recursively builds a dependency graph that includes every module your application needs, then packages all of those modules into one or more bundles.