localForage localForage is a fast and simple storage library for JavaScript. localForage improves the offline experience of your web app by using asynchronous storage (IndexedDB or WebSQL) with a simple, localStorage-like API. localForage uses localStorage in browsers with no IndexedDB or WebSQL support. See the wiki for detailed compatibility info. To use localForage, just drop a single JavaScript file into your page: html <script src="localforage/dist/localforage.js"></script> <script>localforage.getItem(something, myCallback);</script> Try the live example. Download the latest localForage from GitHub, or install with npm: bash npm install localforage localForage is compatible with browserify. Support Lost? Need help? Try the localForage API documentation. localForage API文档也有中文版。 If youre having trouble using the library, running the tests, or want to contribute to localForage, you can visit irc.freenode.net and head to the #localforage channel to ask questions about localForage. You can ask tofumatt about localForage in IRC, who is usually online from 10am-8pm GMT. Safari 10.1+ Since Safari 10.1 we default to IndexedDB; see the CHANGELOG for more info. How to use localForage Callbacks vs Promises Because localForage uses async storage, it has an async API. Its otherwise exactly the same as the localStorage API. localForage has a dual API that allows you to either use Node-style callbacks or Promises. If you are unsure which one is right for you, its recommended to use Promises. Heres an example of the Node-style callback form: js localforage.setItem(key, value, function (err) { // if err is non-null, we got an error localforage.getItem(key, function (err, value) { // if err is non-null, we got an error. otherwise, value is the value }); }); And the Promise form: js localforage.setItem(key, value).then(function () { return localforage.getItem(key); }).then(function (value) { // we got our value }).catch(function (err) { // we got an error }); For more examples, please visit the API docs. Storing Blobs, TypedArrays, and other JS objects You can store any type in localForage; you arent limited to strings like in localStorage. Even if localStorage is your storage backend, localForage automatically does JSON.parse() and JSON.stringify() when getting/setting values. localForage supports storing all native JS objects that can be serialized to JSON, as well as ArrayBuffers, Blobs, and TypedArrays. Check the API docs for a full list of types supported by localForage. All types are supported in every storage backend, though storage limits in localStorage make storing many large Blobs impossible. Configuration You can set database information with the config() method. Available options are driver, name, storeName, version, size, and description. Example: javascript localforage.config({ driver : localforage.WEBSQL, // Force WebSQL; same as using setDriver() name : myApp, version : 1.0, size : 4980736, // Size of database, in bytes. WebSQL-only for now. storeName : keyvaluepairs, // Should be alphanumeric, with underscores. description : some description }); Note: you must call config() before you interact with your data. This means calling config() before using getItem(), setItem(), removeItem(), clear(), key(), keys() or length(). Multiple instances You can create multiple instances of localForage that point to different stores using createInstance. All the configuration options used by config are supported. ``` javascript var store = localforage.createInstance({ name: "nameHere" }); var otherStore = localforage.createInstance({ name: "otherName" }); // Setting the key on one of these doesnt affect the other. store.setItem("key", "value"); otherStore.setItem("key", "value2"); ``` RequireJS You can use localForage with RequireJS: ```javascript define([localforage], function(localforage) { // As a callback: localforage.setItem(mykey, myvalue, console.log); // With a Promise: localforage.setItem(mykey, myvalue).then(console.log); }); ``` Browserify and Webpack localForage 1.3+ works with both Browserify and Webpack. If youre using an earlier version of localForage and are having issues with Browserify or Webpack, please upgrade to 1.3.0 or above. Webpack will emit a warning about using a prebuilt javascript file which is fine. If you want to remove the warning you should exclude localforage from being parsed by webpack using the following conf : javascript module: { noParse: /node_modules\/localforage\/dist\/localforage.js/, loaders: [...], TypeScript If you have the allowSyntheticDefaultImports compiler option set to true in your tsconfig.json (supported in TypeScript v1.8+), you should use: javascript import localForage from "localforage"; Otherwise you should use one of the following: javascript import * as localForage from "localforage"; // or, in case that the typescript version that you are using // doesnt support ES6 style imports for UMD modules like localForage import localForage = require("localforage"); Framework Support If you use a framework listed, theres a localForage storage driver for the models in your framework so you can store data offline with localForage. We have drivers for the following frameworks: AngularJS Angular 4 and up Backbone Ember Vue If you have a driver youd like listed, please open an issue to have it added to this list. Custom Drivers You can create your own driver if you want; see the defineDriver API docs. There is a list of custom drivers on the wiki. Working on localForage Youll need node/npm and bower. To work on localForage, you should start by forking it and installing its dependencies. Replace USERNAME with your GitHub username and run the following: ```bash Install bower globally if you dont have it: npm install -g bower Replace USERNAME with your GitHub username: git clone git@github.com:USERNAME/localForage.git cd localForage npm install bower install ``` Omitting the bower dependencies will cause the tests to fail! Running Tests You need PhantomJS installed to run local tests. Run npm test (or, directly: grunt test). Your code must also pass the linter. localForage is designed to run in the browser, so the tests explicitly require a browser environment. Local tests are run on a headless WebKit (using PhantomJS). When you submit a pull request, tests will be run against all browsers that localForage supports on Travis CI using Sauce Labs. License This program is free software; it is distributed under an Apache License. Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Mozilla (Contributors).