Slate helps you create beautiful, intelligent, responsive API documentation. The example above was created with Slate. Check it out at lord.github.io/slate. Features Clean, intuitive design — With Slate, the description of your API is on the left side of your documentation, and all the code examples are on the right side. Inspired by Stripes and PayPals API docs. Slate is responsive, so it looks great on tablets, phones, and even in print. Everything on a single page — Gone are the days when your users had to search through a million pages to find what they wanted. Slate puts the entire documentation on a single page. We havent sacrificed linkability, though. As you scroll, your browsers hash will update to the nearest header, so linking to a particular point in the documentation is still natural and easy. Slate is just Markdown — When you write docs with Slate, youre just writing Markdown, which makes it simple to edit and understand. Everything is written in Markdown — even the code samples are just Markdown code blocks. Write code samples in multiple languages — If your API has bindings in multiple programming languages, you can easily put in tabs to switch between them. In your document, youll distinguish different languages by specifying the language name at the top of each code block, just like with GitHub Flavored Markdown. Out-of-the-box syntax highlighting for over 100 languages, no configuration required. Automatic, smoothly scrolling table of contents on the far left of the page. As you scroll, it displays your current position in the document. Its fast, too. Were using Slate at TripIt to build documentation for our new API, where our table of contents has over 180 entries. Weve made sure that the performance remains excellent, even for larger documents. Let your users update your documentation for you — By default, your Slate-generated documentation is hosted in a public GitHub repository. Not only does this mean you get free hosting for your docs with GitHub Pages, but it also makes it simple for other developers to make pull requests to your docs if they find typos or other problems. Of course, if you dont want to use GitHub, youre also welcome to host your docs elsewhere. RTL Support Full right-to-left layout for RTL languages such as Arabic, Persian (Farsi), Hebrew etc. Getting started with Slate is super easy! Simply fork this repository and follow the instructions below. Or, if youd like to check out what Slate is capable of, take a look at the sample docs. Getting Started with Slate Prerequisites Youre going to need: Linux or macOS — Windows may work, but is unsupported. Ruby, version 2.3.1 or newer Bundler — If Ruby is already installed, but the bundle command doesnt work, just run gem install bundler in a terminal. Getting Set Up Fork this repository on GitHub. Clone your forked repository (not our original one) to your hard drive with git clone https://github.com/YOURUSERNAME/slate.git cd slate Initialize and start Slate. You can either do this locally, or with Vagrant: ```shell either run this to run locally bundle install bundle exec middleman server OR run this to run with vagrant vagrant up ``` You can now see the docs at http://localhost:4567. Whoa! That was fast! Now that Slate is all set up on your machine, youll probably want to learn more about editing Slate markdown, or how to publish your docs. If youd prefer to use Docker, instructions are available in the wiki. Note on JavaScript Runtime For those who dont have JavaScript runtime or are experiencing JavaScript runtime issues with ExecJS, it is recommended to add the rubyracer gem to your gemfile and run bundle again. Companies Using Slate NASA Sony Best Buy Travis-CI Greenhouse Woocommerce Dwolla Clearbit Coinbase Parrot Drones Scale You can view more in the list on the wiki. Questions? Need Help? Found a bug? If youve got questions about setup, deploying, special feature implementation in your fork, or just want to chat with the developer, please feel free to start a thread in our Spectrum community! Found a bug with upstream Slate? Go ahead and submit an issue. And, of course, feel free to submit pull requests with bug fixes or changes to the dev branch. Contributors Slate was built by Robert Lord while interning at TripIt. Thanks to the following people who have submitted major pull requests: @chrissrogers @bootstraponline @realityking @cvkef Also, thanks to Sauce Labs for sponsoring the development of the responsive styles. Special Thanks Middleman jquery.tocify.js middleman-syntax middleman-gh-pages Font Awesome