sharp sh npm install sharp sh yarn add sharp The typical use case for this high speed Node.js module is to convert large images in common formats to smaller, web-friendly JPEG, PNG and WebP images of varying dimensions. Resizing an image is typically 4x-5x faster than using the quickest ImageMagick and GraphicsMagick settings. Colour spaces, embedded ICC profiles and alpha transparency channels are all handled correctly. Lanczos resampling ensures quality is not sacrificed for speed. As well as image resizing, operations such as rotation, extraction, compositing and gamma correction are available. Most modern 64-bit OS X, Windows and Linux (glibc) systems running Node versions 4, 6, 8 and 10 do not require any additional install or runtime dependencies. Examples javascript const sharp = require(sharp); javascript sharp(inputBuffer) .resize(320, 240) .toFile(output.webp, (err, info) => ... ); // A Promises/A+ promise is returned when callback is not provided. javascript sharp(input.jpg) .rotate() .resize(200) .toBuffer() .then( data => ... ) .catch( err => ... ); ```javascript const roundedCorners = Buffer.from( ); const roundedCornerResizer = sharp() .resize(200, 200) .overlayWith(roundedCorners, { cutout: true }) .png(); readableStream .pipe(roundedCornerResizer) .pipe(writableStream); ``` Documentation Visit sharp.pixelplumbing.com for complete installation instructions, API documentation, benchmark tests and changelog. Contributing A guide for contributors covers reporting bugs, requesting features and submitting code changes. Licence Copyright 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 Lovell Fuller and contributors. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.