Welcome Welcome to Magento 2 installation! Were glad you chose to install Magento 2, a cutting-edge, feature-rich eCommerce solution that gets results. Magento system requirements Magento system requirements Install Magento To install Magento, see either: Installation guide Contributing to the Magento 2 code base Contributions can take the form of new components or features, changes to existing features, tests, documentation (such as developer guides, user guides, examples, or specifications), bug fixes, optimizations, or just good suggestions. To learn about how to make a contribution, click here. To learn about issues, click here. To open an issue, click here. To suggest documentation improvements, click here. Community Maintainers The members of this team have been recognized for their outstanding commitment to maintaining and improving Magento. Magento has granted them permission to accept, merge, and reject pull requests, as well as review issues, and thanks these Community Maintainers for their valuable contributions. Top Contributors Magento is thankful for any contribution that can improve our code base, documentation or increase test coverage. We always recognize our most active members, as their contributions are the foundation of the Magento Open Source platform. Labels applied by the Magento team | Label | Description | | ------------- |-------------| | | Affects Documentation domain. | | | Affects the Product team (mostly feature requests or business logic change). | | | Affects Architect Group (mostly to make decisions around technology changes). | | | The pull request has been accepted and will be merged into mainline code. | | | The pull request has been rejected and will not be merged into mainline code. Possible reasons can include but are not limited to: issue has already been fixed in another code contribution, or there is an issue with the code contribution. | | | The Magento Team has confirmed that this issue contains the minimum required information to reproduce. | | | The Magento Team has validated the issue and an internal ticket has been created. | | | The internal ticket is currently in progress, fix is scheduled to be delivered. | | | The Magento Team needs additional information from the reporter to properly prioritize and process the issue or pull request. | To learn more about issue gate labels click here Reporting security issues To report security vulnerabilities in Magento software or web sites, please e-mail security@magento.com. Please do not report security issues using GitHub. Be sure to encrypt your e-mail with our encryption key if it includes sensitive information. Learn more about reporting security issues here. Stay up-to-date on the latest security news and patches for Magento by signing up for Security Alert Notifications. License Each Magento source file included in this distribution is licensed under OSL 3.0 or the Magento Enterprise Edition (MEE) license http://opensource.org/licenses/osl-3.0.php Open Software License (OSL 3.0) Please see LICENSE.txt for the full text of the OSL 3.0 license or contact license@magentocommerce.com for a copy. Subject to Licensees payment of fees and compliance with the terms and conditions of the MEE License, the MEE License supersedes the OSL 3.0 license for each source file. Please see LICENSE_EE.txt for the full text of the MEE License or visit http://magento.com/legal/terms/enterprise.