Marko is a friendly (and fast!) UI library that makes building web apps fun. Learn more on markojs.com, and even Try Marko Online! Get Involved Contributing: Pull requests are welcome! Read CONTRIBUTING.md and check out our bite-sized and help-wanted issues Submit github issues for any feature enhancements, bugs or documentation problems Support: Join our gitter chat to ask questions to get support from the maintainers and other Marko developers Questions/comments can also be posted as github issues Discuss: Tweet using the #MarkoJS hashtag and follow @MarkoDevTeam Installation bash npm install marko --save Examples Marko provides an elegant and readable syntax for both single-file components and components broken into separate files. There are plenty of examples to play with on Markos Try-Online. Additional component documentation can be found on the Marko.js website. Single file The following single-file component renders a button and a counter with the number of times the button has been clicked. Try this example now! click-count.marko ```marko class { onCreate() { this.state = { count:0 }; } increment() { this.state.count++; } } style { .count { color:#09c; font-size:3em; } .example-button { font-size:1em; padding:0.5em; } } ${state.count} Click me! ``` Multi-file The same component as above split into an index.marko template file, component.js containing your component logic, and style.css containing your component style: index.marko marko <div.count> ${state.count} </div> <button.example-button on-click(increment)> Click me! </button> component.js js module.exports = { onCreate() { this.state = { count: 0 }; }, increment() { this.state.count++; } }; style.css css .count { color: #09c; font-size: 3em; } .example-button { font-size: 1em; padding: 0.5em; } Concise Syntax Marko also support a beautiful concise syntax as an alternative to the HTML syntax. Find out more about the concise syntax here. marko <!-- Marko HTML syntax --> <ul> <li for(color in [a, b, c])> ${color} </li> </ul> marko // Marko concise syntax ul li for(color in [a, b, c]) -- ${color} Changelog See CHANGELOG.md Maintainers Patrick Steele-Idem (Twitter: @psteeleidem) Michael Rawlings (Twitter: @mlrawlings) Phillip Gates-Idem (Twitter: @philidem) Austin Kelleher (Twitter: @AustinKelleher) Dylan Piercey (Twitter: @dylan_piercey) Martin Aberer (Twitter: @metaCoffee) Code of Conduct This project adheres to the eBay Code of Conduct. By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms. License MIT