Mark Text :high_brightness:Next generation markdown editor:crescent_moon: An Electron app for platforms of OS X Windows and Linux Version License Build Status Downloads total Downloads latest release deps sponsors Website | 中文 | Polski | 日本語 | Français | Features | Downloads | Development | Contribution This Markdown editor that could. Built with ❤︎ by Jocs and contributors Features Realtime preview and use snabbdom as its render engine. Support CommonMark Spec and GitHub Flavored Markdown Spec. Support paragraphs and inline style shortcuts to improve your writing efficiency. Output HTML and PDF file. Dark and Light themes. Various edit mode: Source Code mode, Typewriter mode, Focus mode. :crescent_moon:Dark and Light themes:high_brightness: | Dark :crescent_moon: | Light :high_brightness: | |:------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------:| | | | :smile_cat:Edit modes:dog: | Source Code | Typewriter | Focus | |:--------------------------------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------:| | | | | Why write another editor? I love writing. I have used a lot of markdown editors, yet there is still not an editor that can fully meet my needs. I dont like to be disturbed when I write by some unbearable bug. Mark Text uses virtual DOM to render the page, so its high efficiency, and open source to all friends who love markdown and writing. As mentioned above, Mark Text will be open source forever. It is also hoped that all markdown lovers can contribute their own code, and develop Mark Text into a popular markdown editor. There are many markdown editors, and each editor has its own characteristics, but it is also difficult to satisfy all markdown users needs. I hope Mark Text can satisfy markdown users needs as much as possible. Although the latest Mark Text is still not perfect, we are trying to make it as perfect as we can. Download and Install | | | | |:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:| | | | | Cant find your system? Go the the release page. Still cant find? Open an issue. Want to see new features in this version? Refer to CHANGELOG If you use OS X system, you can install Mark Text by homebrew cask, to start using Homebrew-Cask, you just need Homebrew installed. bash brew cask install mark-text macOS and Windows Simply download and install Mark Text via setup wizard. Linux Please follow the Linux installation instructions. Development If you wish to build Mark Text yourself, please check out our developer documentation. When you have any questions while using Mark Text, you are welcome to write an issue, but I hope you will follow the format of issue. Of course, if you submit a PR directly, it will be appreciated. Integrations Alfred Workflow: A Workflow for the OS X app Alfred: Use "mt" to open files/folder with Mark Text. Contribution Mark Text is in full development, please make sure to read the Contributing Guide before making a pull request. Want to add some features to Mark Text? Refer to TODO LIST and open issues. Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [Become a backer] Sponsors Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [Become a sponsor] Platinum Sponsors Contributors Thank you to all the people who have already contributed to Mark Text[contributors] Special thanks to @Yasujizr who designed the logo of Mark Text. License MIT.