Google Play Music™ Desktop Player Windows: MacOS / Linux: Run "Google Play Music" as a standalone desktop app. Never again will you have to hunt through your tabs to pause your music, or stop listening to your favourite song because Chrome is guzzling up all your RAM.. Developed by Samuel Attard. No affiliation with Google. Google Play is a trademark of Google Inc. Download Head over to our website http://www.googleplaymusicdesktopplayer.com to download the latest release for your platform. OS Support Windows 7 or later Mac OS X 10.9.0 or later Ubuntu 14.04 or later Mint Fedora Debian Features Supports media keys (play, pause, stop, next, previous) last.fm Scrobbling and Now Playing support! Hands free Voice Controls! Desktop notifications on track change A simplistic mini player Customizable Dark theme Task bar media controls (media controls embedded into the taskbar) Windows only Smooth scrolling and overlay scrollbars for a nicer User Experience HTML5 Audio Support - No more Adobe Flash Player :+1: Minimize to task bar for background music playing Customizable hotkeys, no worries if you dont have media keys. Choose your own shortcuts Choose your audio output device from within the player And a whole lot more coming soon! Integrating with GPMDP from External Applications There are two methods you can use to integrate with GPMDP from an external application. 1. JSON Interface 2. Web Socket Interface Both are documented in the Docs folder. For one time read access you should probably use the JSON interface. For an application that requires continuous updates as to the state of GPMDP or needs to control GPMDP you should use the Web Socket interface. Issues If you have any bugs / issues please check the FAQ first before raising an issue Credits Logo designed by @JayToe Development To get started just pull the repo and run the following bash npm install npm run build npm start To build the installers / release packages you need to run, you can only build a platforms installer from that platform. ```bash Windows npm run make:win Mac OS X npm run make:darwin Ubuntu (Requires the dpkg package) npm run make:deb Fedora (Requires the rpm package) npm run make:rpm ``` All releases will be signing with my Code Signing Certificates (Authenticode on Windows and Codesign on OS X) Please see the development FAQ for additional requirements for building. Contributing If you find something wrong (theming issues, app crashes) please report them as an issue. If you think you can add something cool or fix a problem, fork the repo and make a pull request :D NOTE: Some of the functionality in this app has been extracted into smaller submodules. In particular Google Play Music Interaction - https://github.com/gmusic-utils/gmusic.js Theming - https://github.com/gmusic-utils/gmusic-theme.js Mini Player - https://github.com/GPMDP/gmusic-mini-player.js Electron Chromecast - https://github.com/GPMDP/electron-chromecast Dev Requirements Node.js (Recommend 6.3.x) NPM (3.x.x) Continuous Integration We run tests and generate signed installers on three CI platforms Windows --> AppVeyor OS X --> Travis CI * Linux --> Circle CI You can download the latest signed installers for Windows from the artifacts section of AppVeyor You can download the latest signed package for OS X from the URL at the bottom of the build log on Travis CI You can download the latest linux (debian and fedora) builds from the artifacts section on Circle CI License The MIT License (MIT) Copyright (c) 2016 Samuel Attard Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.