BitBar BitBar (by Mat Ryer - @matryer) lets you put the output from any script/program in your Mac OS X Menu Bar. Download latest BitBar release - requires Mac OS X Lion or newer (>= 10.7) Visit the app homepage at https://getbitbar.com to install plugins Get started and installing plugins Digging deeper: Browse plugin repository Guide to writing your own plugins Distributing pre-configured BitBar Learn about integrating with bitbar via the bitbar:// URL scheme And finally... Read the story about how BitBar unexpectedly got going Contributing and special thanks Examples Example showing the latest Buy and Sell figures for BitCoins: Click to see the full output, and more options: Example showing your internal and external IP addresses: Get started Get the latest version of BitBar. Copy it to your Applications folder and run it - it will ask you to (create and) select a plugins folder, do so. Browse our plugins to find useful scripts, or write your own. Its free, so please donate If you love this, any BitCoin donations are most welcome, to 1DGoNEYAnjE5DqK7y5zMPR4PLU5HLKpLNR or send something useful (Amazon Wishlist). Installing plugins Just download the plugin of your choice into your BitBar plugins directory and choose Refresh from one of the BitBar menus. Configure the refresh time The refresh time is in the filename of the plugin, following this format: {name}.{time}.{ext} name - The name of the file time - The refresh rate (see below) ext - The file extension For example: date.1m.sh would refresh every minute. Most plugins will come with a default, but you can change it to anything you like: 10s - ten seconds 1m - one minute 2h - two hours 1d - a day Ensure you have execution rights Ensure the plugin is executable by running chmod +x plugin.sh. Using symlinks Because Git will ignore everything in Plugins/Enabled, you can use it to maintain your own plugins directory while still benefitting from tracking (upstream) changes. Example cd Plugins/Enabled # Enable spotify plugin ln -s ../Music/spotify.10s.sh # Enable uptime plugin and change update interval to 30 seconds ln -s ../System/uptime.1m.sh uptime.30s.sh Then select the Enabled folder in your BitBar preferences. Resetting Plugin Directory In case you made the mistake of choosing a directory with thousands of files as the plugin directory and BitBar getting stuck forever, do this from terminal to reset it: defaults delete com.matryer.BitBar Contributing Help us solve bugs or build new features. If you want to contribute a plugin, please head over to the Plugin repository and submit a pull request. Be sure to read our guide to writing plugins below. BitBar app To work on the BitBar app, fork, then clone this repo. In terminal, navigate to the project directory and run: git submodule init && git submodule update Thanks Special thanks to @muhqu and @tylerb for all their help (see commit history for details) Thanks to Chris Ryer for the app logo - and to @mazondo for the original Thanks for all our plugin contributors who have come up with some pretty genius things Writing plugins Were always looking for new plugins, so please send us pull requests if you write anything cool or useful. Join the conversation with plugin authors and BitBar maintainers on Slack. Got ideas? If youve got ideas, or want to report a bug, nip over to our issues page and let us know. If you want to contribute, please send us a pull request and well add it to our repos. Ensure the plugin is executable Be sure to include appropriate Metadata to enhance the plugins entry on getbitbar.com Plugin API To write a plugin, just write some form of executable script that outputs to the standard output. Multiple lines will be cycled through over and over. If your output contains a line consisting only of ---, the lines below it will appear in the dropdown for that plugin, but wont appear in the menu bar itself. Lines beginning with -- will appear in submenus. Use ---- etc. for nested submenus. Two dashes per level of nesting. Your lines might contain | to separate the title from other parameters, such as... href=.. to make the item clickable color=.. to change their text color. eg. color=red or color=#ff0000 font=.. to change their text font. eg. font=UbuntuMono-Bold size=.. to change their text size. eg. size=12 bash=.. to make the item run a given script terminal with your script e.g. bash=/Users/user/BitBar_Plugins/scripts/nginx.restart.sh if there are spaces in the file path you will need quotes e.g. bash="/Users/user/BitBar Plugins/scripts/nginx.restart.sh" param1= to specify arguments to the script. additional params like this param2=foo param3=bar full example bash="/Users/user/BitBar_Plugins/scripts/nginx.restart.sh" param1=--verbose assuming that nginx.restart.sh is executable or bash=/usr/bin/ruby param1=/Users/user/rubyscript.rb param2=arg1 param3=arg2 if script is not executable terminal=.. start bash script without opening Terminal. true or false refresh=.. to make the item refresh the plugin it belongs to. If the item runs a script, refresh is performed after the script finishes. eg. refresh=true dropdown=.. May be set to true or false. If false, the line will only appear and cycle in the status bar but not in the dropdown length=.. to truncate the line to the specified number of characters. A … will be added to any truncated strings, as well as a tooltip displaying the full string. eg. length=10 trim=.. whether to trim leading/trailing whitespace from the title. true or false (defaults to true) alternate=true to mark a line as an alternate to the previous one for when the Option key is pressed in the dropdown templateImage=.. set an image for this item. The image data must be passed as base64 encoded string and should consist of only black and clear pixels. The alpha channel in the image can be used to adjust the opacity of black content, however. This is the recommended way to set an image for the statusbar. Use a 144 DPI resolution to support Retina displays. The imageformat can be any of the formats supported by Mac OS X image=.. set an image for this item. The image data must be passed as base64 encoded string. Use a 144 DPI resolution to support Retina displays. The imageformat can be any of the formats supported by Mac OS X emojize=false will disable parsing of github style :mushroom: into :mushroom: ansi=false turns off parsing of ANSI codes. Metadata To enhance your entry on getbitbar.com, add the following metadata to your source code (usually in comments somewhere): ``` Title goes here v1.0 Your Name your-github-username Short description of what your plugin does. http://www.hosted-somewhere/pluginimage python,ruby,node http://url-to-about.com/ ``` The comment characters can be anything - use what is suitable for your language bitbar.title - The title of the plugin bitbar.version - The version of the plugin (start with v1.0) bitbar.author - Your name bitbar.author.github - Your github username (without @) bitbar.desc - A short description of what your plugin does bitbar.image - A hosted image showing a preview of your plugin (ideally open) bitbar.dependencies - Comma separated list of dependencies bitbar.abouturl - Absolute URL to about information For a real example, see the Cycle text and detail plugin source code. Useful tips If youre writing scripts, ensure it has a shebang at the top. You can add to PATH by including something like export PATH=/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:$PATH in your plugin script. You can use emoji in the output (find an example in the Music/vox Plugin). If your bash script generates text in another language, set the LANG variable with: export LANG="es_ES.UTF-8" (for Spanish) to show the text in correct format. If you want to call the plugin script for action, you can use bash=$0 If your plugin should support Retina displays, export your icon at 36x36 with a resolution of 144 DPI (see this issue for a more thorough explanation). Examples One line plugin #!/bin/bash date Multi-line plugin #!/bin/bash # the current date and time date # the current username echo $USER # the current user id id -u Multi-line plugin with extra data #!/bin/bash echo "One" echo "Two" echo "Three" echo "---" echo "Four" echo "Five" echo "Six" Only One, Two and Three will appear in the top bar Clicking the plugin menu item will show all lines Multi-line plugin with links and colors #!/bin/bash curl -m 1 http://example.com -I >/dev/null 2>&1 [ $? -gt 0 ] && echo "FAIL | color=red" || echo "OK | color=green" echo "---" echo "Show Graphs | color=#123def href=http://example.com/graph?foo=bar" echo "Show KPI Report | color=purple href=http://example.com/report" Multi-line plugin with fonts and colors #!/bin/zsh FONT=( size=14 font=UbuntuMono ) if ((0)); then echo "DO | $FONT color=orange" else echo "DO | $FONT color=cadetblue" echo "---" ... Tested languages Anything that can write to standard out is supported, but here is a list that have been explicitly tested. Ruby Status: Working Output: puts "your string here" Python2 Status: Working Output: print "your string here" Python3 Status: Working Output: print("your string here") Caveats: To output unicode shebang has to be in the format #!/usr/bin/env PYTHONIOENCODING=UTF-8 /path/to/the/python3 JavaScript (node) Status: Working Caveats: Shebang has to be in the format #!/usr/bin/env /path/to/the/node/executable Output: console.log("your string here") Notes: process.stdout.write doesnt output desired text. There may be a better way to run JavaScript files. Tips: Use the Node.js bitbar module to simplify plugin creation. CoffeeScript (coffee) Status: Working Caveats: Shebang has to be in the format #!/usr/bin/env /path/to/the/coffee/executable coffee shebang also had to be modified. #!/usr/bin/env /path/to/the/node/executable Output: console.log "your string here" Notes: process.stdout.write doesnt output desired text. There may be a better way to run CoffeeScript files. Swift (Interpreted) Status: Working Output: print("your string here") Swift (Compiled) Status: Working Caveats: You still need a file extension (file.1s.cswift) Output: print("your string here") Notes: To compile a swift file, use: xcrun -sdk macosx swiftc -o file.1s.cswift file.1s.swift Go (Interpreted) Status: Working Caveats: Your scripts shebang must be: //usr/env/bin go run $0 $@; exit go must be in your PATH Output: Println("your string here") Go (Compiled) Status: Working Caveats: You still need a file extension (file.1s.cgo) Output: Println("your string here") Notes To compile a Go file, use: go build file.1s.go Lisp Status: Working Caveats: lisp/clisp must be in your PATH Output: (format t "your string here") Perl5 Status: Working Output: print "your string here" Notes Add -l to shebang to automatic add newline to print function: #!/usr/bin/perl -l PHP Status: Working Output: echo your string here Notes Add shebang #!/usr/bin/php Utilities: BitBar PHP Formatter - https://github.com/SteveEdson/bitbar-php