Mattermost is an open source, private cloud, Slack-alternative from https://mattermost.org. Its written in Golang and React and runs as a single Linux binary with MySQL or PostgreSQL. Every month on the 16th a new compiled version is released under an MIT license. Review product documentation. Download compiled version. Try out Mattermost Join the Mattermost Contributors server (latest nightly builds, unstable) Join the Mattermost Demo server (latest stable version) Deploy on Heroku Note: Heroku preview does not include email or persistent storage Deploy on a Cloud Platform via Bitnami Auto-deploy Mattermost to Amazon Web Services, Azure, Google Cloud Platform, or Oracle Cloud Platform via Bitnami. Install on Your Own Machine One-line Docker Preview Developer Machine Setup Production Install Guides using Linux Binary Production Docker Install Native Mobile and Desktop Apps In addition to the web interface, you can also download Mattermost clients for Android, iOS, Windows PC, Mac OSX, and Linux. Get Security Bulletins Receive notifications of critical security updates. The sophistication of online attackers is perpetually increasing. If you are deploying Mattermost it is highly recommended you subscribe to the Mattermost Security Bulletin mailing list for updates on critical security releases. Subscribe here Get Involved Contribute Code Find "Help Wanted" projects Join Developer Discussion on a Mattermost Server for contributors File Bugs Share Feature Ideas Get Troubleshooting Help Help translate Mattermost Learn More API Options - webhooks, slash commands, drivers and web service See whos using Mattermost Browse over 700 Mattermost integrations Get the Latest News Twitter - Follow MattermostHQ Blog - Get the latest updates from the Mattermost blog. Email - Subscribe to our newsletter (1 or 2 per month) IRC - Join us on #matterbridge (thanks to matterircd) Any other questions, mail us at info@mattermost.com. Wed love to meet you!