Awesome Swift PLEASE DO NOT UPDATE THIS FILE, UPDATE CONTENTS.JSON INSTEAD. THANK YOU :-) | iOS App | Awesome | Linux | Projects | Updated | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | | | :penguin: | 849 | July 11, 2018 Contents Guides Newsletter Official Guides Style Guides Third party Guides Boilerplates REPL Editor Support Emacs Vim Benchmark Converters Other Awesome Lists Dependency Managers Patterns Misc Libs AI Algorithm Analytics Animation API App Routing App Store Audio Augmented Reality Authentication Bots Cache Chart Chat Colors Command Line Concurrency Currency Data Management Core Data JSON Key Value Store MongoDB Multi Database ORM Other Data Realm SQL drivers SQLite XML YAML ZIP Date Dependency Injection Device Documentation Email Embedded Systems Peripherals Events Files Fonts Game Engine 2D Games Gesture Hardware 3D Touch Bluetooth Camera Barcode Haptic Feedback iBeacon Sensors Images Key Value Coding Keyboard Kit Layout Auto Layout Localization Location Logging Maps Math Natural Language Processing Network HTML Messaging Protocol Socket Webserver OCR Optimization PDF Quality Scripting SDK Security Cryptography Keychain Streaming Styling System Testing Mock Text Thread UI Alert ApplicationDelegate Blur Button Calendar Cards Form HUD Label Menu Pagination Payment Permissions StackView Switch Tab Template TextField Transition UICollectionView UITableView Walkthrough Utility Validation Phone Numbers Version Manager Video Guides An awesome list of Swift related guides. Newsletter back to top Swift Developments - A weekly curated newsletter containing for people interested in designing and developing their own iOS, watchOS and Apple TV apps. Swift Newsletter by Natasha the Robot (discontinued, look the archive) - Curated newsletter. Swift Weekly Brief - A multi author curated newsletter. WeeklyCocoa.News - Weekly updated newsletter about iOS, Swift, Objective-C, CocoaTouch, and other Apple connected development technologies. Official Guides back to top API Design Guidelines - Official Swift API design guidelines. Apple eBook - Official Apple eBook for Swift beginners. Getting Started - Find information about the how to use the Swift programming language. Style Guides back to top LinkedIn - LinkedIns Official Style Guide. Raywenderlich - Raywenderlich guide, a must read. Third party Guides back to top 30 Days of Swift - A cool 30 days tutorial. About Swift - A playground about the Swift language. Awesome Swift Education - An organized list of essential Swift Language Topics. Developing iOS Apps with Swift - Stanford course by Paul Hegarty. Hacking With Swift - Complete training course that teaches app development through 30 hands-on projects, for free. Ray Wenderlich Tutorials, Videos, Podcasts and books - High quality programming tutorials Swift Education - A community of educators sharing materials for teaching Swift and app development. Swift Web Weekly - A free, hand-picked list of the best links for Swift Web Developers, every Monday in your inbox. swift-tips - A series of useful tips by Vincent Pradeilles SwiftDoc - Auto-generated documentation. SwiftGuide CN - A Chinese written guide. SwiftTips - A collection of useful tips by John Sundell. The Swift Web Developer - A publication for Swift Web Developers. whats-new-in-swift-4 - An Xcode playground showcasing the new features in Swift 4.0. Boilerplates Swift 3 VIPER Module Template - Xcode template for VIPER Architecture. Swift Module Template - An opinionated starting point for awesome, reusable modules. REPL Online Swift Playground - Online Swift Playground. Editor Support Support for your favorite editors. Emacs back to top swift-mode - Emacs support, including partial flycheck error support. Vim back to top swift-vim - Vim runtime files. vim-polyglot - Language pack for vim that includes vim-swift. Benchmark xcprofiler - Command line utility to profile compilation time. Converters Swiftify - Objective-C to Swift online code converter and Xcode extension. Other Awesome Lists Check out apps on these projects: awesome-macOS - A curated list of awesome applications, softwares, tools and shiny things for macOS. example-ios-apps - An amazing list for people who are beginners and learning ios development and for ios developers who need any example app or feature. * open-source-ios-apps - A collaborative list of open-source iOS Apps. Dependency Managers Dependency manager software for Swift. Carthage - A new dependency manager. CocoaPods - The most used dependency manager. Mint - A package manager that installs and runs Swift command line tools. swift-package-manager - SPM is the Package Manager for the Swift Programming Language. Patterns App Architecture - A sample Code of the App Architecture Book. Design-Patterns-In-Swift - Design Patterns. Misc Miscellaneous Swift related projects Beak - A command line interface for your Swift scripts. SwagGen :penguin: - A command line tool for generating a REST API from a Swagger spec based off Stencil templates. swift-compiler-crashes - A collection of test cases crashing the compiler. SwiftGen - A suite of tools to auto-generate code for various assets of your project. SwiftPlate - Easily generate cross platform framework projects from the command line. Toybox - Xcode Playground management made easy. * XcodeGen - Tool for generating Xcode projects from a YAML file and your project directory. Libs Here you can find a list of snippets and libs for your Swift projects. AI Libs for AI based projects (Machine Learning, Neural Networks etc). back to top CoreML-Models - A collection of unique Core ML Models. MLKit - A simple machine learning framework. Algorithm back to top Algorithm - A toolset for writing algorithms and probability models. swift-algorithm-club - Algorithms and data structures, with explanations. SwiftLCS :penguin: - implementation of the longest common subsequence (LCS) algorithm. Analytics Analytics related libraries to easily track your app usage back to top Umbrella - Analytics abstraction layer. Animation Libs to help with animation back to top Advance - A powerful animation framework for iOS, tvOS, and OS X. ChainPageCollectionView - Fancy two-level collection view layout and animation. DKChainableAnimationKit - Easy to read and write chainable animations. Ease - Animate everything with Ease. EasyAnimation - A library to take the power of UIView.animateWithDuration(_:, animations:...) to a whole new level. FlightAnimator - Natural Blocks Based Core Animation Framework. Gemini - Gemini is rich scroll based animation framework. IBAnimatable - Design and prototype UI, interaction, navigation, transition and animation for App Store ready Apps in Interface Builder with IBAnimatable. Interpolate - Interpolation framework for creating interactive gesture-driven animations. Kinieta - An simple Animation Engine for iOS with an Intuitive API and Readable Code Pastel - Gradient animation effect like Instagram. Poi - Poi makes you use card UI like tinder UI .You can use it like tableview method. Presentation - A library to help you to make tutorials, release notes and animated pages. Pulsator - Pulse animation for iOS. Sica - Simple Interface Core Animation. Run type-safe animation sequencially or parallelly. Spring - A library to simplify iOS animations. SpriteKitEasingSwift - Better Easing for SpriteKit. spruce-ios - Choreograph animations on the screen. Stellar - A Physical animation library. SwiftyAnimate - Composable animations. TheAnimation - Type-safe CAAnimation wrapper. It makes preventing to set wrong type values. ViewAnimator - Brings your UI to life with just one line. YapAnimator - Your fast and friendly physics-based animation system. API Quick libs to get access to third party API services back to top GooglePlacesAutocomplete - Simple Google Places address entry for iOS. PXGoogleDirections - Google Directions API helper. RandomUserSwift - Framework to Generate Random Users - An Unofficial SDK for randomuser.me reddift - reddit API wrapper. Swifter Twitter - Twitter framework. SwiftInstagram - Instagram API wrapper. SwiftlySalesforce - Framework for rapid development of native iOS apps that integrate with Salesforce. App Routing Internal app routing systems. back to top Appz - Launch external apps and deeplink with ease. Compass - Compass helps you setup a central navigation system for your application. Crossroad - :oncoming_bus: Crossroad is an URL router focused on handling Custom URL Schemes. Linker - Lightweight way to handle internal and external deeplinks for iOS. RxFlow - RxFlow is a navigation framework for iOS applications based on a Reactive Flow Coordinator pattern. SwiftRouter - A URL Router for iOS. URLNavigator - Elegant URL Routing. App Store Libs to help with apple app store, in app purchases and receipt validation. back to top InAppPurchase - A Simple, Lightweight and Safe framework for In App Purchase. merchantkit - A modern In-App Purchases management framework for iOS. SwiftyStoreKit - Lightweight In App Purchases framework. Audio Libs to work with audio back to top AudioKit - Powerful audio synthesis, processing and analysis, without the steep learning curve. AudioPlayer - A wrapper around AVPlayer with some cool features. AudioPlayerSwift - AudioPlayer is a simple class for playing audio (basic and advanced usage) in iOS, OS X and tvOS apps. Beethoven - An audio processing library for pitch detection of musical signals. MusicKit - A framework for composing and transforming music. SwiftySound - Simple library that lets you play sounds with a single line of code. TuningFork - A Simple Tuner for iOS. Augmented Reality back to top ARKit-CoreLocation - Combines the high accuracy of AR with the scale of GPS data. ARKit-Navigation - Navigation in augmented reality with MapKit. ARVideoKit - Capture & record ARKit videos, photos, Live Photos, and GIFs ARVoxelKit - Voxel graphic framework using ARKit Poly - Unofficial Google Poly SDK â€“ explore the world of 3D Authentication Easy way to manage auth in your apps. back to top Cely - A Plug-n-Play login framework. InstagramLogin - Simple way to authenticate Instagram accounts. LoginKit - LoginKit is a quick and easy way to add a Login/Signup UX to your iOS app. ReCaptcha - [In]visible ReCaptcha for iOS. Simplicity - A simple way to implement Facebook and Google login in your iOS and OS X apps. SpotifyLogin - Authenticate with the Spotify API. Bots Libs to build bot back to top Telegram Bot SDK :penguin: - Unofficial SDK. Telegrammer :penguin: - Open-source framework for Telegram Bots developers. It was built on top of Apple/SwiftNIO which help to demonstrate excellent performance. Cache back to top AwesomeCache - Manage cache easy. Cache - Nothing but Cache. Cachyr - A small key-value data cache for iOS, macOS and tvOS. Carlos - A simple but flexible cache. EVURLCache - If you want to make your app still works when its offline. Chart back to top Charts - Beautiful charts for iOS/tvOS/OSX (port of MPAndroidChart). PNChart-Swift - A simple and beautiful chart lib with animation. ScrollableGraphView - Adaptive scrollable graph view for iOS to visualise simple discrete datasets. SwiftChart - A simple line and area charting library for iOS. Supports multiple series, partially filled series and touch events. SwiftCharts - Highly customizable charts for iOS. TKRadarChart - A customizable radar chart. Chat Libs to get access to build chat app back to top Chatto - A lightweight framework to build chat applications. MessageKit - A community-driven replacement for JSQMessagesViewController. MessengerKit - A UI framework for building messenger interfaces. Colors Interesting snippets related to color management and utility. back to top Chameleon - Chameleon is a lightweight, yet powerful, color framework for iOS. ChromaColorPicker - An intuitive and fun iOS color picker. Colorify - Colorify - simple, yet powerful color library. DynamicColor - An extension to manipulate colors easily. FlatUIColors - Flat UI color palette. HexColor - Define UIColors as Hex integers. Hue - Hue is the all-in-one coloring utility that youll ever need. PrettyColors - Styles and colors text in the Terminal with ANSI escape codes. Conforms to ECMA Standard 48. SwiftGen-Colors - A tool to auto-generate Swift enums for your UIColor constants. SwiftHEXColors - HEX color handling as an extension for UIColor. UIColor-Hex-Swift - Hex to UIColor converter. UIGradient - A simple and powerful library for using gradient layer, image, color Command Line Create command line applications. back to top Commander :penguin: - Compose beautiful command line interfaces. CommandLine :penguin: - Library for creating command-line interfaces. LineNoise :penguin: - A zero-dependency replacement for readline Progress.swift :penguin: - Add beautiful progress bars to your command line. SwiftCLI :penguin: - A powerful framework that can be used to develop a CLI. Swiftline - A set of tools to help you create command line applications. SwiftyTextTable :penguin: - A lightweight library to generate text tables. Concurrency Easier ways to work with concurrency. back to top AsyncNinja - A complete set of concurrency and reactive programming primitives. Futures :penguin: - Lightweight promises for iOS, macOS, tvOS, watchOS, and server-side. GroupWork :penguin: - Easy concurrent, asynchronous tasks. Hydra - Promises & Await - Write better async code. Kommander - Manage the task execution in different threads through Kommands. Queuer :penguin: - A queue manager, built on top of OperationQueue and Dispatch (aka GCD). Venice :penguin: - Communicating sequential processes (CSP), Linux ready. Currency back to top Money - Currency formatter. Data Management back to top Core Data No more pain with Core Data, here are some interesting libs to handle data management. back to top AERecord - Super awesome Core Data wrapper library for iOS. AlecrimCoreData - Simple Core Data wrapper library. Cadmium - Framework that hides the complexity of managed object contexts. CoreStore - simple and elegant way to handle Core Data. DataKernel - DataKernel is a minimalistic wrapper around Core Data stack to ease persistence operations. No external dependencies. Graph - An elegant data-driven framework for Core Data. JSQCoreDataKit - A swifter Core Data stack. JustPersist - Easiest and safest way to do persistence on iOS with Core Data support out of the box. QueryKit - An easy way to play with Core Data filtering. Records - In just a few minutes, setup a fully functioning CoreData implementation that embraces the static, type-safe nature of Swift. Skopelos - A minimalistic, thread safe, non-boilerplate and super easy to use version of Active Record on Core Data. SugarRecord - Helps with Core Data and Realm. JSON Struggling using json data? Here are some interesting ways to handle it. back to top AlamofireObjectMapper - An Alamofire extension which converts JSON response data into objects using ObjectMapper. Alembic - Functional JSON parsing, mapping to objects, and serialize to JSON. Argo - JSON parsing library. Arrow - Elegant JSON Parsing. Decodable :penguin: - JSON parsing. Elevate - JSON parsing framework that makes parsing simple, reliable and composable. EVReflection - Reflection based JSON encoding and decoding. Including support for NSDictionary, NSCoding, Printable, Hashable and Equatable Freddy - A reusable framework for parsing JSON. Genome - A simple, type safe, failure driven mapping library for serializing JSON to models. Gloss :penguin: - Shiny JSON parsing library. HandyJSON - A handy Swift JSON-object serialization/deserialization library. Himotoki - A type-safe JSON decoding library. JASON - JSON parsing with outstanding performances and convenient operators. JSONCodable - Hassle-free JSON encoding and decoding. JSONHelper - Lightning fast JSON deserialization and value conversion library for iOS & OS X. JSONNeverDie - Auto reflection tool from JSON to Model, user friendly JSON encoder / decoder, aims to never die. ObjectMapper - JSON object mapper. PMJSON - Pure Swift JSON encoding/decoding library. SwiftyJSON - A lib for JSON with error handling. SwiftyJSONAccelerator - OSX app to generate models for JSON. Unbox - The easy to use JSON decoder. Key Value Store back to top Default - Modern interface to UserDefaults + Codable support DefaultsKit - Simple, Strongly Typed UserDefaults for iOS, macOS and tvOS. Palau - Typesafe NSUserDefaults with custom rules. Prephirences - Manage application preferences, NSUserDefaults, iCloud, Keychain and more. Storez - Safe, statically-typed, store-agnostic key-value storage. SwiftStore - A Key-Value store backed by LevelDB. SwiftyUserDefaults - Cleaner, nicer syntax for NSUserDefaults. UserDefaultsStore - Why not use UserDefaults to store Codable objects ðŸ˜‰ Zephyr - Effortlessly synchronize NSUserDefaults over iCloud. MongoDB back to top MongoKitten :penguin: - MongoDB Connector. Perfect-MongoDB :penguin: - A stand-alone wrapper around the mongo-c client library, enabling access to MongoDB servers. Multi Database Data management layers that involve multiple sources. back to top Shallows - Your lightweight persistence toolbox. StorageKit - Your Data Storage Troubleshooter ðŸ›  ORM back to top fluent :penguin: - Simple ActiveRecord implementation. Other Data Other ways to persist data back to top CSVParser :penguin: - Fast parser for CSV. EVCloudKitDao - Simplified access to CloudKit with support for subscriptions and local caching. KeyPathKit - KeyPathKit provides a seamless syntax to manipulate data using typed keypaths. LeetCode-Swift - Solutions to LeetCode interview questions. Pencil - Write any value to file. StorageManager - Safe and easy way to use FileManager as Database. Realm back to top Realm - Realm is a mobile database: a replacement for Core Data & SQLite. Realm+JSON - A concise Mantle-like way of working with Realm and JSON. SQL drivers back to top MySQL Swift :penguin: - MySQL client library. Perfect-MySQL :penguin: - A stand-alone wrapper around the MySQL client library, enabling access to MySQL servers. Perfect-PostgreSQL :penguin: - A stand-alone wrapper around the libpq client library, enabling access to PostgreSQL servers. SQLite Are you interested in storing your app data using SQLite? Here are some interesting resources. back to top GRDB.swift - A versatile SQLite toolkit. SQLite.swift - Framework wrapping SQLite3. Small. Simple. Safe. SQLiteDB - SQLite wrapper. XML If you prefer to manage XML data formatted entries, here are some helpful libs back to top AEXML - xml wrapper. CheatyXML - A powerful framework designed to manage XML easily. SwiftyXML - The most swifty way to deal with XML. SWXMLHash - Simple XML parsing. YAML back to top YamlSwift - Load YAML and JSON documents. Yams :penguin: - Sweet YAML parser. ZIP back to top Zip - Framework for zipping and unzipping files. Zip Foundation - A library to create, read and modify ZIP archive files. Date Handle data formatting easily. back to top AnyDate - Date & Time API inspired from Java 8 DateTime API. Chronology - Building a better date/time library. DateHelper - Simple date helper. Datez - Library for dealing with NSDate, NSCalendar, NSDateComponents, and NSTimeInterval. Datify - Easypeasy date functions. NVDate - Date extension library. SwiftDate - Easy NSDate Management. SwiftMoment - A time and calendar manipulation library. Time - Type-safe time calculations, powered by generics. Timepiece - Intuitive NSDate extensions. TrueTime.swift - Get the true current time impervious to device clock time changes (NTP library). Dependency Injection Dependency injection libs back to top Cleanse - A Lightweight Dependency Injection Framework by Square. Corridor - A Coreader-like Dependency Injection Î¼Framework. Dip - A simple Dependency Injection Container. Swinject - A dependency injection framework. Typhoon - Dependency injection toolkit. Weaver - A declarative, easy-to-use and safe Dependency Injection framework for Swift Device A collection of libs to recognize your device. back to top Device - Light weight tool for detecting the current device and screen size. Device.swift - Super-lightweight library to detect used device. DeviceKit - DeviceKit is a value-type replacement of UIDevice. Luminous - Get everything you need to know about the device. Thingy - A modern device detection and querying library. UIDeviceComplete - UIDevice extensions that fill in the missing pieces. Documentation Generate documentation for Swift code back to top jazzy - Soulful docs. SourceDocs - Generate Markdown reference documentation that lives with your code. Email back to top Embedded Systems Build your embedded Linux projects on a RaspberryPi, BeagleBone, C.H.I.P. and other boards. back to top SwiftyGPIO :penguin: - Interact with Linux GPIO/SPI/PWM on ARM. Peripherals Interact with specific external peripherals. back to top Events Alternatives to NSNotificationCenter, Key-Value-Observation, or delegation. back to top Bond - Binding framework. BrightFutures - Promise and future lib. EmitterKit - Implementation of event emitters and listeners. FutureKit - Future/Promises Library. Katana - Write apps a la React and Redux. NoticeObserveKit - NoticeObserveKit is type-safe NotificationCenter wrapper that associates notice type with info type. Notificationz - Helping you own NSNotificationCenter by providing a simple, customizable adapter. Observable - The easiest way to observe values. PMKVObserver - Modern thread-safe and type-safe key-value observing for Swift and Objective-C. PromiseKit - Async promise programming lib. ReactiveCocoa - ReactiveCocoa (RAC) is a Cocoa framework inspired by Functional Reactive Programming. It provides APIs for composing and transforming streams of values over time. ReactorKit - A framework for reactive and unidirectional application architecture. ReSwift - Unidirectional Data Flow. RxReduce - Reactive implementation of the state container pattern (like Redux). It is based on the simple concepts of state immutability and unidirectionnal data flow. RxSwift - Microsoft Reactive Extensions (Rx) for Swift and iOS/OSX platform. Signals - Replaces delegates and notifications. Snail - An Observables framework. SwiftEventBus - A publish/subscribe event bus optimized for iOS. Tempura - A holistic approach to iOS development, inspired by Redux and MVVM. Tomorrowland - Lightweight Promises for Swift & Obj-C. VueFlux - Unidirectional Data Flow State Management Architecture - Inspired by Vuex and Flux. When - A lightweight implementation of Promises. Files back to top FileBrowser - Powerful file browser for iOS. FileKit - Simple and expressive file management. FileProvider - FileManager replacement for Local, iCloud and Remote (WebDAV/FTP/Dropbox/OneDrive/SMB2) files for iOS/tvOS and macOS. KZFileWatchers - A micro-framework for observing file changes, both local and remote. PathKit :penguin: - Effortless path operations. Fonts A collection of font related snippets. back to top FontAwesome.swift - Use FontAwesome in your projects. FontBlaster - Programmatically load custom fonts into your iOS app. Inkwell - An inkwell to use custom fonts on the fly. IoniconsKit - Use ionicons as UIImage / UIFont in your projects. OcticonsKit - Use Octicons as UIImage / UIFont in your projects. OpenSansSwift - OpenSans. SwiftIconFont - Fontawesome, Iconic, Ionicons, Octicon ports. SwiftIcons - Library for Font Icons: dripicons, emoji, font awesome, icofont, ionicons, linear icons, map icons, material icons, open iconic, state, weather. UIFontComplete - Font management (System & Custom) for iOS and tvOS. Game Engine back to top 2D back to top ImagineEngine - Blazing fasst 2D gaming engine. Games back to top Sage :penguin: - A cross-platform chess library. Gesture back to top DBPathRecognizer - db path recognizer for letters. PeekPop - Framework for backwards-compatible Peek and Pop. ShowTime - Show off your iOS taps and gestures for demos and videos with just one line of code. SwiftyGestureRecognition - UIGestureRecognizers in Xcode Playgrounds. SwipyCell - UITableViewCell implementing swiping to trigger actions (known from the Mailbox App). Hardware A category dedicated to hardware related libs back to top 3D Touch Easy handle new 3D Touch / Force Touch feature thanks to these libs. back to top Bluetooth Wrappers around CoreBluetooth back to top BlueCap - Wrapper around CoreBluetooth and much more. Bluejay - A simple framework for building reliable Bluetooth LE apps. BluetoothKit - Easily communicate between iOS/OSX devices using BLE. RxBluetoothKit - iOS & OSX Bluetooth library for RxSwift. SwiftyBluetooth - Simple and reliable closure based wrapper around CoreBluetooth. Camera Awesome camera libs back to top ALCameraViewController - Camera view controller with custom image picker and image cropping. Fusuma - Instagram-like photo browser and a camera feature. NextLevel - Rad Media Capture. Barcode Barcode, QR-code, other code readers back to top BarcodeScanner - A simple and beautiful barcode scanner view controller. EFQRCode - A better way to operate quick response code. QRCodeReader.swift - Simple QRCode reader. Haptic Feedback Libraries that involve the use of Haptic Feedback back to top Haptica - Easy Haptic Feedback Generator. iBeacon Interested in using iBeacon in your Swift project? Here some interesting resources. back to top SwiftLocation - Location & Beacon Monitoring. Sensors Manage your device sensors in a faster and easier way back to top MotionKit - iOS device sensors wrapper. Images An interesting list of image related libs.. back to top Agrume - A lemony fresh iOS image viewer. AlamofireImage - AlamofireImage is an image component library for Alamofire. APNGKit - High performance and delightful way to play with APNG format in iOS. AXPhotoViewer - An iPhone/iPad photo gallery viewer, useful for viewing a large (or small!) number of photos. BlockiesSwift - Unique blocky identicons/profile picture generator. CTPanoramaView - A library that displays spherical or cylindrical panoramas with touch or motion based controls. DTPhotoViewerController - A fully customizable photo viewer ViewController to display single photo or collection of photos, inspired by Facebook photo viewer. FacebookImagePicker - Facebook album photo picker. FlexibleImage - A simple way to play with images. gifu - Highly performant animated GIF support for iOS. GPUImage 2 - GPUImage 2 is a BSD-licensed Swift framework for GPU-accelerated video and image processing. HanekeSwift - A lightweight generic cache for iOS with extra love for images. ImageDetect - Detect and crop faces, barcodes and texts in image with iOS 11 Vision API. ImageLoader - A lightweight and fast image loader for iOS. ImageScout - Implementation of fastimage - supports PNG, GIF, and JPEG. ImageViewer - An image viewer Ã  la Twitter JLStickerTextView - A UIImageView allow you to add multiple Label (multiple line text support) on it, you can edit, rotate, resize the Label as you want with one finger ,then render the text on Image. Kingfisher - Image download and caching. LetterAvatarKit - A UIImage extension that generates letter-based avatars. Lightbox - A convenient and easy to use image viewer for your iOS app. MapleBacon - Image download and caching library. MCScratchImageView - A custom ImageView that is used to cover the surface of other view like a scratch card, user can swipe the mulch to see the view below. Moa - An image download extension of the image view for iOS, tvOS and macOS. Nuke - Advanced framework for loading, caching, processing, displaying and preheating images. PassportScanner - Scan the MRZ code of a passport and extract the first name, last name, passport number, nationality, date of birth, expiration date and personal number. Sharaku - Image filtering UI library like Instagram. Snowflake - Work with SVG. SwiftGen-Assets - A tool to auto-generate enums for all your UIImages from your Assets Catalogs. SwiftGif - A small UIImage extension with GIF support. SwiftSVG - A single pass SVG parser with multiple interface options (String, NS/UIBezierPath, CAShapeLayer, and NS/UIView). SwiftyGif - High performance GIF engine. TinyCrayon - A smart and easy-to-use image masking and cutout SDK for mobile apps. Toucan - Image processing api. UIImageColors - iTunes style color fetcher for UIImage. Viewer - Image viewer (or Lightbox) with support for local and remote videos and images. Vulcan - Multi image downloader with priority. ZImageCropper - Crop image in any shape. Key Value Coding Libraries for key-value coding back to top Keyboard Do you want to create your own customized keyboard? Here are some interesting resources back to top IHKeyboardAvoiding - An elegant solution for keeping any UIView visible when the keyboard is being shown. No UIScrollView required. IQKeyboardManager - Codeless drop-in universal library allows to prevent issues of keyboard sliding up and cover UITextField/UITextView. KeyboardHideManager - Codeless manager to hide keyboard by tapping on views for iOS. Typist - Small, drop-in UIKit keyboard manager for iOS apps-helps manage keyboards screen presence and behavior without notification center. Kit Libraries for coding with a simplified API back to top BFKit-Swift :penguin: - A collection of useful classes, structs and extensions to develop Apps faster. C4iOS - Harnesses the power of native iOS programming with a simplified API. Layout Libs to help you with layout. back to top BrickKit - Create complex and responsive layouts in a simple way. FlexLayout - Nice and clean interface to the highly optimized Facebook yoga Flexbox implementation. LayoutKit - LayoutKit is a fast view layout library for iOS, macOS, and tvOS. LayoutLess - Write less UI Code. ManualLayout - Easy to use and flexible AutoLayout alternative for iOS 8+. Supports AsyncDisplayKit. Neon - A powerful programmatic UI layout framework. PinLayout - Fast Swift Views layouting without auto layout. No magic, pure code, full control and blazing fast. Concise syntax, intuitive, readable & chainable. [iOS/macOS/tvOS] Static - A simple static table views for iOS. Stevia - Elegant view layout for iOS. Auto Layout Bored of using storyboard? Give a try to declarative auto layout libs. back to top Bamboo - Auto Layout (and manual layout) in one line. Cartography - Declarative auto layout lib for your project. Cassowary - A linear constraint solving library using the same algorithm as AutoLayout. Cupcake - An easy way to create and layout UI components for iOS. EasyPeasy - Auto Layout made easy. KVConstraintKit - An Impressive Autolayout DSL for iOS, tvOS & OSX. MisterFusion - DSL for AutoLayout, supports Size Class. Mortar - A concise but flexible DSL for creating Auto Layout constraints and adding subviews. PureLayout - The ultimate API for iOS & OS X Auto Layout. SnapKit - Autolayout DSL for iOS & OS X. Swiftstraints - Powerful auto-layout framework that lets you write constraints in one line of code. TinyConstraints - TinyConstraints is the syntactic sugar that makes Auto Layout sweeter for human use. Localization Frameworks that helps with localizing your app back to top BartyCrouch - Incrementally update/translate your Strings files from Code and Storyboards/XIBs. IBLocalizable - Localize your views directly in Interface Builder with IBLocalizable. L10n-swift - Localization of an application with ability to change language "on the fly" and support for plural forms in any language. LocalizationKit - Realtime dynamic localization of your app with remote management so you can manage maintain and deploy translations without resubmitting app. Localize - Localize apps using e.g. regular expressions in Localizable.strings. Localize-Swift - Localize apps using e.g. regular expressions in Localizable.strings. NoOptionalInterpolation - Get rid of "Optional(...)" and "nil" in string interpolation. Easy pluralization. Swifternalization - Localize apps using e.g. regular expressions in Localizable.strings. SwiftGen-L10n - A tool to auto-generate enums for all your Localizable.strings keys (with appropriate associated values if those strings contains printf-format placeholders like %@). Location back to top STLocationRequest - An elegant and simple 3D Flyover Location Request Screen. Logging Utilities for writing to and reading from the device log back to top AEConsole - Customizable Console UI overlay with debug log on top of your iOS App. CleanroomLogger - Configurable and extensible high-level logging API that is simple, lightweight and performant. Dotzu - Debbuger tool for iOS developer. Display logs, network request, device informations, crash logs while using the app. Duration :penguin: - Lightweight logging library focused on reporting timings for operations. HeliumLogger :penguin: - IBMs lightweight logging framework. Printer - A fancy logger for your next app. Puree - A log collector for iOS. QorumLogs - Logging Utility for Xcode & Google Docs. Rainbow :penguin: - Delightful console output. SwiftyBeaver :penguin: - Multi-platform logging during development & release. TinyConsole - A tiny log console to display information while using your iOS app. TraceLog :penguin: - Dead Simple: logging the way its meant to be! Runs on iOS, macOS, and Linux. Watchdog - Utility for logging excessive blocking on the main thread. WatchdogInspector - A logging tool to show the current framerate (fps) in the status bar of your iOS app. Willow - Willow is a powerful, yet lightweight logging library. XCGLogger - Full featured & Configurable logging utility with log levels, timestamps, and line numbers. Maps back to top Cluster - Easy Map Annotation Clustering. FlyoverKit - FlyoverKit enables you to present stunning 360Â° flyover views on your MKMapView with zero effort while maintaining full configuration possibilities. GEOSwift - Make it easier to work with geographic models and calculate intersections, overlapping, projections etc. LocoKit - A location and activity recording framework for iOS. MapViewPlus - Use any custom view as custom callout view for MKMapView with cool animations. Use any image as annotation view. Math back to top Arithmosophi - Set of protocols for Arithmetic and Logical operations. BigInt - Arbitrary-precision arithmetic. DDMathParser - DDMathParser makes it easy to parse a String and evaluate it as a mathematical expression. SigmaSwiftStatistics - A collection of functions for statistical calculation. Upsurge - Simple and fast matrix and vector math. Natural Language Processing back to top Network A list of libs that allow you to decrease the amount of time spent dealing with http requests. back to top Alamofire :penguin: - Elegant networking. APIKit - Library for building type-safe web API client. Ciao - Publish and discover services using mDNS (Bonjour, Zeroconf). Conduit - Robust networking for web APIs. Dots - Lightweight Concurrent Networking Framework. Dratini - A neat network layer. Heimdallr.swift - Easy to use OAuth 2 library for iOS. Just :penguin: - HTTP for Humans (a python-requests style HTTP library). Malibu - A networking library built on promises. Moya - Network abstraction layer. MultiPeer - A wrapper for the MultipeerConnectivity framework for automatic offline data transmission between devices NEKit - A toolkit for Network Extension Framework. NetClient - Versatile HTTP networking library. Netfox - A lightweight, one line setup, network debugging library. OAuth2 - oauth2 auth lib. OAuthSwift - OAuth library for iOS. PeerKit - Framework for building event-driven, zero-config Multipeer Connectivity apps. PerfectAPIClient - An API Client based on a network abstraction layer for the Perfect Server-Side Swift Framework Pitaya :penguin: - HTTP / HTTPS networking library just incidentally execute on machines. PMHTTP - Swift/Obj-C HTTP framework with a focus on REST and JSON. Postal - Framework providing simple access to common email providers. Reachability.swift - A replacement for Apples Reachability with closures. ResponseDetective - A non-intrusive framework for intercepting any outgoing requests and incoming responses between your app and server for debugging purposes. ShadowsocksX-NG - A fast tunnel proxy that helps you bypass firewalls. Siesta - Elegant abstraction for REST APIs that untangles stateful messes. An alternative to callback- and delegate-based networking. SolarNetwork - Elegant network abstraction layer. SwiftHTTP - NSURLSession wrapper. SwiftyOAuth - A small OAuth library with a built-in set of providers. TRON - Lightweight network abstraction layer, written on top of Alamofire. HTML Need to manipulate contents from html easily? back to top Fuzi - A fast & lightweight XML/HTML parser with XPath & CSS support. Ji - XML/HTML parser. Kanna - Another XML/HTML parser. SwiftSoup :penguin: - HTML Parser, with best of DOM, CSS, and jquery. WKZombie - Headless browser. Messaging Protocol back to top CocoaMQTT - MQTT for iOS and OS X. Perfect-Notifications - iOS Notifications for Linux and OS X. Socket back to top BlueSocket :penguin: - IBMs low level socket framework. DNWebSocket - Object-Oriented, Autobahn tested WebSocket Library (RFC 6455) for Swift-compatible Platforms. RxWebSocket - Reactive WebSockets. Socket.IO :penguin: - Socket.IO client for iOS/OS X. sockets :penguin: - TCP, UDP; Client, Server; Linux, OS X. Starscream - Websockets for iOS and OSX. SwiftDSSocket - Asynchronous socket framework built atop DispatchSource. SwiftSocket - Simple TCP socket library. SwiftWebSocket - A high performance WebSocket client library . Webserver Would you like host a webserver in your device? Here you can find how to do it. back to top Ambassador - Super lightweight web framework based on SWSGI. Curassow :penguin: - HTTP server using the pre-fork worker model. Embassy :penguin: - Super lightweight async HTTP server library. Kitura :penguin: - IBMs web framework and server for web services. Lightning :penguin: - Multiplatform Single-threaded Non-blocking Web and Networking Framework. Noze.io :penguin: - Evented I/O streams like Node.js. Perfect :penguin: - Server-side Swift. The Perfect library, application server, connectors and example apps. swifter :penguin: - Http server with routing handler. Vapor :penguin: - Elegant web framework that works on iOS, OS X, and Ubuntu. Zewo :penguin: - Server-Side Swift. OCR back to top SwiftOCR - Neural Network based OCR lib. Optimization back to top PDF back to top PDFGenerator - A simple Generator of PDF. Generate PDF from view(s) or image(s). SimplePDF - Create a simple PDF effortlessly. UXMPDFKit - A PDF viewer and annotator that can be embedded in iOS applications. Quality back to top IBLinter - A linter tool for Interface Builder. SwiftLint - A tool to enforce coding conventions. Swimat - Xcode plugin to format code. Tailor :penguin: - Cross-platform static analyzer that helps you to write cleaner code and avoid bugs. Scripting back to top Marathon - Easy way to create and manage scripts. Swift for Scripting - A hand-curated collection of useful and informative scripting material. SDK back to top Security back to top Cryptography Deal with cryptography method easily back to top CryptoSwift :penguin: - Crypto related functions and helpers. IDZSwiftCommonCrypto - A wrapper for Apples Common Crypto library. RNCryptor - CCCryptor (Apples AES encryption) wrappers for iOS and Mac. SCrypto - Elegant Swift interface to access the CommonCrypto routines. Siphash - Simple and secure hashing with the SipHash algorithm. Swift-Sodium - Interface to the Sodium library for common crypto operations for iOS and OS X. Keychain back to top keychain-swift - Helper functions for saving text in Keychain securely for iOS, OS X, tvOS and watchOS. KeychainAccess - Simple wrapper for Keychain that works on iOS and OS X. Latch - A simple Keychain Wrapper for iOS. Locksmith - A powerful, protocol-oriented library for working with the iOS Keychain. SwiftKeychainWrapper - Simple static wrapper for the iOS Keychain to allow you to use it in a similar fashion to user defaults. Streaming back to top Live - Demonstrate how to build a live broadcast app. Styling back to top Ambience - Brightness aware accessibility theme switching without coding. Stylist - Define UI styles in a hot-loadable external yaml or json file. SwiftTheme - Powerful theme/skin manager for iOS 8+. Themes - Theme management. System back to top SMCKit - Apple SMC library. SystemKit - OS X system library. Testing A collection of testing frameworks. back to top DVR - A simple network testing framework. Erik - An headless browser to access and manipulate webpages using javascript allowing to run functional tests. Fakery - Fake data generator. Nimble - A matcher framework. OHHTTPStubs - A testing library designed to stub your network requests easily. PinpointKit - Lets your testers and users send feedback with annotated screenshots and logs using a simple gesture. Quick :penguin: - Quick is a behavior-driven development framework. Spectre :penguin: - BDD Framework. SwiftCheck - A testing library that automatically generates random data for testing program properties. UI Testing Cheat Sheet - Answers to common "How do I test this with UI Testing?" questions with a working example app. Mock back to top Cuckoo - First boilerplate-free mocking framework. Kakapo - Dynamically Mock server behaviors and responses. Mockingjay - An elegant library for stubbing HTTP requests with ease. Mockit - A simple mocking framework, inspired by the famous Mockito for Java. Text A collection of text projects. back to top Atributika - Easily build NSAttributedString by detecting and styling HTML-like tags, hashtags, mentions, RegExp or NSDataDetector patterns. Attributed - Modern Âµframework for attributed strings. AttributedTextView - Easiest way to create an attributed UITextView with support for multiple links, hashtags and mentions. BonMot - Beautiful, easy attributed strings for iOS. Croc - A lightweight Emoji parsing and querying library. edhita - Fully open source text editor for iOS. Format - Formatting kit for numbers, addresses and colors. MarkdownKit - A simple and customizable Markdown Parser. MarkdownView - iOS Markdown view. MarkyMark - Converts Markdown into native views or attributed strings. Notepad - A fully themeable markdown editor with live syntax highlighting. Parsey - Parser combinator framework that supports source location tracking, backtracking prevention, and rich error messages. Pluralize.swift - Great String Pluralize Extension. PredicateFlow - PredicateFlow is a builder that allows you to write amazing, strong-typed and easy-to-read NSPredicate. PrediKit - An NSPredicate DSL for iOS & OS X inspired by SnapKit. PySwiftyRegex - Easily deal with Regex in a Pythonic way. Regex by crossroadlabs :penguin: - Very easy to use Regular Expressions library with rich functionality. Features both operator =~ and method based APIs. Unit tests covered. RichEditorView - RichEditorView is a simple, modular, drop-in UIView subclass for Rich Text Editing. Roman :penguin: - Seamless Roman numeral conversion. Sprinter - A library for formatting strings. SwiftRichString - Elegant & Painless Attributed Strings Management Library. SwiftVerbalExpressions - VerbalExpressions porting. SwiftyAttributes - Extensions that make it a breeze to work with attributed strings. SyntaxKit - TextMate-style syntax highlighting. TextAttributes - An easier way to compose attributed strings. Thread Threading, task-based or asynchronous programming, Grand Central Dispatch (GCD) wrapper back to top Async - Syntactic sugar for Grand Central Dispatch. AwaitKit - The ES7 Async/Await control flow. Chronos - Grand Central Dispatch Utilities. Each - Each is a NSTimer bridge library. EKI - Make Grand Central Dispatch easy and fun to use (queue, task, group, timer and semaphore). GCDTimer - A well-tested GCD timer. SwiftyTimer - API for NSTimer. UI A collection of pre-packaged transitions & cool ui stuffs. back to top AECoreDataUI - Core Data driven UI. AGCircularPicker - Helpful component for creating a controller aimed to manage any calculated parameter. AMScrollingNavbar - Scrollable UINavigationBar that follows the scrolling of a UIScrollView. BreakOutToRefresh - A playable pull to refresh view using SpriteKit. BulletinBoard - Generates and manages contextual cards displayed at the bottom of the screen. ClassicKit - A collection of classic-style UI components. CostumeKit - Base types for theming an app. CountryPickerView - A simple, customizable view for efficiently collecting country information in iOS apps. CustomSegue - Custom segue for OSX Storyboards with slide and cross fade effects. DeckTransition - A library to recreate the iOS 10 Apple Music now playing transition. Dodo - A message bar for iOS. DropDown - A Material Design drop down for iOS. Element - Programmatic UI framework for macOS. Elissa - Displays a notification on top of a UITabBarItem or any UIView anchor view to reveal additional information. EstMusicIndicator - Music play indicator like iTunes. Family - A child view controller framework that makes setting up your parent controllers as easy as pie. FAQView - An easy to use FAQ view for iOS. Fashion - Fashion accessories and beauty tools to share and reuse UI styles. FlagKit - Beautiful flag icons for usage in apps and on the web. FloatRatingView - Floating rating system. Fluid Slider - A slider widget with a popup bubble displaying the precise value selected. GaugeKit - Customizable gauges. Easy reproduce Apples style gauges. Geometry - extensions for UIView. GMStepper - A stepper with a sliding label in the middle. GradientProgressBar - A customizable gradient progress bar (UIProgressView). GRMustache - Flexible Mustache templates. GrowingTextView - UITextView that supports auto growing, placeholder and length limit. Hexacon - A new way to display content in your app like the Apple Watch SpringBoard. HGCircularSlider - A custom reusable circular slider control for iOS application. HorizontalDial - A horizontal scroll dial like Instagram. IGColorPicker - A customizable color picker for iOS. ImagePicker - A nicely designed and super easy to use ImagePicker. InfoView - Simple information view with pointed arrow. InstantSearch iOS - A library of widgets and helpers to build instant-search features on iOS. KALoader - Beautiful animated placeholders for showing loading of data. KDInteractiveNavigationController - A UINavigationController subclass that support pop interactive UINavigationBar with hidden or show. KMNavigationBarTransition - A drop-in universal library helps you to manage the navigation bar styles and makes transition animations smooth between different navigation bar styles while pushing or popping a view controller for all orientations. KMPlaceholderTextView - A UITextView subclass that adds support for multiline placeholder. LeeGo - Declarative, configurable & highly reusable UI development as making Lego bricks. LicensePlist - A command-line tool that automatically generates a Plist of all your dependencies. LiquidLoader - Spinner loader components with liquid animation. Macaw - Powerful and easy-to-use vector graphics library with SVG support. Magnetic - SpriteKit Floating Bubble Picker (inspired by Apple Music). Mandoline - An iOS picker view to serve all your picking needs. MantleModal - A simple modal resource that uses a UIScrollView to allow the user to close the modal by dragging it down. Material - Express your creativity with Material, an animation and graphics framework for Googles Material Design and Apples Flat UI. MaterialKit - Material design components. MediaBrowser - Simple iOS photo and video browser with optional grid view, captions and selections. MediumScrollFullScreen - Medium scroll style menubar. MPParallaxView - Apple TV Parallax effect. MXParallaxHeader - Simple parallax header for UIScrollView. MZFormSheetPresentationController - Provides an alternative to the native iOS UIModalPresentationFormSheet, adding support for iPhone and additional opportunities to setup controller size and feel form sheet. NextGrowingTextView - The next in the generations of growing textviews optimized for iOS 7 and above. NVActivityIndicatorView - Collection of nice loading animations. PanelKit - A UI framework that enables panels on iOS. PPAssetsActionController - Highly customizable Action Sheet Controller with assets preview. PullToDismiss - You can dismiss modal viewcontroller by pulling scrollview or navigationbar. RangeSeekSlider - A customizable range slider like a UISlider for iOS. Reel search - Option list managed as a reel. RetroProgress - Retro looking progress bar straight from the 90s. SAHistoryNavigationViewController - iOS task manager like UI in UINavigationContoller. SectionedSlider - Control Center Slider. SelectionDialog - Simple selection dialog. ShadowView - Make shadows management easy on UIView. Shiny - Iridescent Effect View (inspired by Apple Pay Cash). SkeletonView - An elegant way to show users that something is happening and also prepare them to which contents he is waiting. SKPhotoBrowser - Simple PhotoBrowser/Viewer inspired by facebook, twitter photo browsers. Spots - Spots is a view controller framework that makes your setup and future development blazingly fast. SpreadsheetView - Full configurable spreadsheet view user interfaces for iOS applications. StarryStars - Display & edit ratings, fully customizable from interface builder. StatefulViewController - Placeholder views based on content, loading, error or empty states. StepProgressView - Step-by-step progress view with labels and shapes. A good replacement for UIActivityIndicatorView and UIProgressView. SwiftyUI - High performance and lightweight UIView, UIImage, UIImageView, UIlabel, UIButton and more. SYBlinkAnimationKit - A blink effect animation framework. TagListView - Simple but highly customizable iOS tag list view. Toaster - Notification toasts. TouchVisualizer - Lightweight touch visualization library with a single line of code. Twinkle - Easy way to make elements in your iOS app twinkle. UIPheonix - Easy, flexible, dynamic and highly scalable UI framework + concept for reusable component/control-driven apps. URLEmbeddedView - Automatically caches the object that is confirmed the Open Graph Protocol, and displays it as URL embedded card. Wallet - A replica of the Apples Wallet interface. Add, delete or present your cards and passes. Windless - Windless makes it easy to implement invisible layout loading view. WSTagsField - An iOS text field that represents different Tags. YNSearch - Awesome fully customizable search view like Pinterest. Alert Libs to display alert, action sheet, notification, popup. back to top Alertift - Modern, easy UIAlertController wrapper. Alerts Pickers - Advanced usage of UIAlertController with TextField, DatePicker, PickerView, TableView and CollectionView. CDAlertView - Highly customizable alert/notification/success/error/alarm popup. CFNotify - A customizable framework to create draggable alert views. EZAlertController - Easy UIAlertController. GSMessage - A simple style messages/notifications for iOS 7+. Hokusai - A library for a cool bouncy action sheet. Jelly - Jelly provides custom view controller transitions with just a few lines of code. Kamagari - Simple UIAlertController builder class. KRAlertController - A beautiful alert controller for your iOS. NotificationBanner - The easiest way to display highly customizable in app notification banners in iOS. PMAlertController - PMAlertController is a great and customizable substitute to UIAlertController. PopupDialog - A simple, customizable popup dialog. Replaces UIAlertController alert style. SCLAlertView - Animated Alert view. StatusAlert - Display Apple system-like self-hiding status alerts without interrupting user flow. SweetAlert - Alert system. Swift-Prompts - Design custom prompts with a great scope of options to choose from. SwiftEntryKit - A simple and versatile pop-up presenter. SwiftMessages - A very flexible message bar for iOS. SwiftOverlays - various popups and notifications. SwiftyDrop - Lightweight dropdown message bar. Whisper - Messages and in-app notification made easy. XLActionController - Fully customizable and extensible action sheet controller. Zingle - An alert will display underneath your UINavigationBar. ApplicationDelegate back to top SuperDelegate - SuperDelegate provides a clean application delegate interface and protects you from bugs in the application lifecycle. Blur back to top VisualEffectView - UIVisualEffectView subclass with tint color. Button back to top DOFavoriteButton - Cute Animated Button. Floaty - Floating Action Button for iOS. LGButton - A fully customisable subclass of the native UIControl which allows you to create beautiful buttons without writing any line of code. LTHRadioButton - A radio button with a pretty animation. MultiToggleButton - A UIButton subclass that implements tap-to-toggle button text (like the camera flash and timer buttons). NFDownloadButton - Revamped Download Button. Its kinda a reverse engineering of Netflixs app download button. PMSuperButton - A powerful UIButton with super powers, customizable from Storyboard. SwiftShareBubbles - Animated social share buttons control for iOS. TransitionButton - UIButton subclass for loading and transition animation. Calendar back to top CalendarKit - Fully customizable calendar day view. DateTimePicker - A nicer iOS UI component for picking date and time. JTAppleCalendar - UI calendar handler. Karmadust - Unidirectional Calendar Component with Native Events Support. Koyomi - Simple customizable calendar component. Workaholic - A GitHub-like work contribution timeline. Cards back to top CardParts - A reactive, card-based UI framework built on UIKit for iOS developers VerticalCardSwiper - A marriage between the Shazam Discover UI and Tinder, built with UICollectionView. Form back to top Eureka - Elegant iOS form builder. Former - A fully customizable library for easy creating UITableView based form. SwiftForms - Forms are now easy as 1-2-3. SwiftyFORM - Forms that can be validated. HUD back to top EZLoadingActivity - Lightweight loading activity HUD. GradientLoadingBar - An animated gradient loading bar. KRProgressHUD - A beautiful and customizable progress HUD. PKHUD - Reimplementation of the Apple HUD. Label back to top ActiveLabel - UILabel drop-in replacement supporting Hashtags (#), Mentions (@) and URLs (http://). AnimatedMaskLabel - A nice gradient animated label that make easy to add a shimmering effect to any view. CountdownLabel - Simple countdown UILabel with morphing animation, and some useful function. FloatLabelFields - Text entry controls which contain a built-in title/label so that you dont have to add a separate title for each field. GlitchLabel - Glitching UILabel for iOS. IncrementableLabel - An UILabel subclass to (de)increment numbers in an UILabel. KDEDateLabel - An UILabel subclass that updates itself to make time agos format easier. LTMorphingLabel - Graceful morphing effects for UILabel. NumberMorphView - A label view for displaying numbers which can transition or animate using a technique called number tweening or number morphing. SMIconLabel - UILabel with image placed from left or right. Translucid - Lightweight library to set an Image as text background. TriLabelView - A triangle shaped corner label view for iOS. Menu back to top AKSwiftSlideMenu - Slide Menu (Drawer). ENSwiftSideMenu - Sliding side menu. FanMenu - Menu with a circular layout based on Macaw. FlowingMenu - Interactive view transition to display menus with flowing and bouncing effects. GuillotineMenu - Guillotine style menu. HHFloatingView - An easy to use and setup floating view for your app. InteractiveSideMenu - Customizable iOS Interactive Side Menu. KWDrawerController - Drawer view controller that easy to use. MediumMenu - A menu based on Medium iOS app. MenuItemKit - UIMenuItem with image and block (closure) support. Pagemenu - Pagination enabled view controller. PagingKit - PagingKit provides customizable menu UI PagingMenuController - Paging view controller with customizable menu. Parchment - A paging view controller with a highly customizable menu, built on UICollectionView. PopMenu - ðŸ˜Ž A cool and customizable popup style action sheet for iOS. SideMenu - Simple side menu control for iOS inspired by Facebook. Right and Left sides. No coding required. SlideMenuControllerSwift - iOS Slide Menu View based on Google+, iQON, Feedly, Ameba iOS app. SwipeMenuViewController - Swipable tab and menu View and ViewController. XLPagerTabStrip - Android PagerTabStrip for iOS. YNDropDownMenu - Adorable iOS drop down menu. Pagination back to top CHIPageControl - A set of cool animated page controls to replace boring UIPageControl. Pageboy - A simple, highly informative page view controller. PageController - Infinite paging controller. SlideController - It is a nice alternative for UIPageViewController built using power of generic types. Swipe between pages with an interactive title navigation control. Configure horizontal or vertical chains for unlimited pages amount. Payment back to top Caishen - A Payment Card UI & Validator for iOS. iCard - Bank Card Generator using SnapKit DSL. MFCard - Easily integrate Credit Card payments in iOS App. Permissions back to top AREK - AREK is a clean and easy to use wrapper over any kind of iOS permission. Permission - A unified API to ask for permissions on iOS. PermissionScope - A Periscope-inspired way to ask for iOS permissions. StackView back to top StackViewController - Simplify the use of UIStackView. TZStackView - An iOS9 UIStackView layout component re-implemented for iOS 7 and 8. Switch back to top Switch - A switch control with full Interface Builder support. Tab back to top Adaptive Tab Bar - Adaptive tab bar. Animated Tab Bar - RAMAnimatedTabBarController is a Swift module for adding animation to tab bar items. ColorMatchTabs - Interesting way to display tabs. DTPagerController - Container view controller to display a set of ViewControllers in a horizontal scroll view HHTabBarView - A lightweight customized tab bar view. Tabman - A powerful paging view controller with indicator bar. TabPageViewController - Paging view controller and scroll tab view. Template back to top Stencil - Simple and powerful template language. SwiftCssParser - Extensible CSS parser. TextField back to top CBPinEntryView - Easy to use, very customisable pin entry. DTTextField - DTTextField is a custom textfield with floating placeholder and error label. HTYTextField - A UITextField with bouncy placeholder. PasswordTextField - A custom TextField with a switchable icon which shows or hides the password and enforces good password policies. SkyFloatingLabelTextField - A beautiful and flexible text field control implementation of "Float Label Pattern". TextFieldCounter - UITextField character counter with lovable UX. TextFieldEffects - Several ready to use effects for UITextFields. UITextField-Navigation - UITextField-Navigation adds next, previous and done buttons to the keyboard for your UITextFields. Highly customizable. Transition back to top BubbleTransition - Bubble transition in an easy way. Cards XI - Awesome iOS 11 AppStores Card Views. EasyTransitions - A simple way to create custom interactive UIViewController transitions. Hero - Elegant transition library for iOS. MusicPlayerTransition - Custom interactive transition like Apple Music iOS App. PinterestSwift - Pinterest style transition. RevealingSplashView - A Splash view that animates and reveals its content, inspired by the Twitter splash. StarWars.iOS - Transition animation to crumble view-controller into tiny pieces. Transition - Easy interactive interruptible custom ViewController transitions. UICollectionView back to top AZCollectionViewController - Easy way to integrate pagination with dummy views in CollectionView, make Instagram Discover withing minutes. Blueprints - A framework that is meant to make your life easier when working with collection view flow layouts. BouncyLayout - Collection view layout that makes your cells bounce. CardsLayout - Nice card-designed custom CollectionView layout. CenteredCollectionView - A lightweight UICollectionViewLayout that pages and centers its cells. CollectionViewShelfLayout - A UICollectionViewLayout subclass displays its items as rows of items similar to the App Store Feature tab without a nested UITableView/UICollectionView hack. CollectionViewSlantedLayout - UICollectionViewLayout to show slanted content. Drag and Drop UICollectionView - Dragging and Dropping data across multiple UICollectionViews. FSPagerView - Elegant Screen Slide Library. It is extremely helpful for making Banner Viewã€Product Showã€Welcome/Guide Pagesã€Screen/ViewController Sliders. GravitySlider - Beautiful alternative to the standard UICollectionView flow layout. RAReorderableLayout - A UICollectionView layout which can move an item with drag and drop. ShelfView-iOS - iOS custom view to display books on shelf. SimpleSource - Easy and type-safe iOS table and collection views. SwiftSpreadsheet - Fully customizable spreadsheet CollectionViewLayout. TagCellLayout - UICollectionView layout for Tags with Left, Center & Right alignments. VegaScroll - Lightweight animation flowlayout for UICollectionView completely written in Swift. UITableView back to top AZTableViewController - Elegant and easy way to integrate pagination with placeholder views. DTTableViewManager - Protocol-oriented UITableView management, powered by generics and associated types. ExpandableCell - Fully refactored YNExapnadableCell with more concise, bug free. Easiest usage of expandable & collapsible cell for iOS. You can customize expandable UITableViewCell whatever you like. ExpandableCell is made because insertRows and deleteRows is hard to use. Just inheirt ExpandableDelegate ExpyTableView - Make your table view expandable just by implementing one method. folding-cell - Folding cell transition. GridView - Can be customized as a time table, spreadsheet, paging and more. HGPlaceholders - Nice library to show placeholders and Empty States for any UITableView/UICollectionView in your project. ParallaxHeader - Simple way to add parallax header to UIScrollView/UITableView. Persei - Animated top menu for UITableView / UICollectionView / UIScrollView. PullToRefreshSwift - PullToRefresh library. QuickTableViewController - A simple way to create a UITableView for settings. ReverseExtension - UITableView extension that enables the insertion of cells the from bottom of a table view. SectionScrubber - A component to quickly scroll between collection view sections. Shoyu - Easier way to represent the structure of UITableView. SwipeCellKit - Swipeable UITableViewCell based on the stock Mail.app. YNExpandableCell - Awesome expandable, collapsible tableview cell for iOS. Walkthrough back to top AwesomeSpotlightView - Create tutorial or coach tour. BWWalkthrough - A class to build custom walkthroughs for your iOS App. Gecco - Spotlight view for iOS. Instructions - A library to create app walkthroughs and guided tours. SwiftyOnboard - An iOS framework that allows developers to create beautiful onboarding experiences. SwiftyWalkthrough - The easiest way to create a great walkthrough experience in your apps. Utility Some interesting utilities to help you in your projects back to top AlexaSkillsKit - Develop custom Alexa Skills. Basis - Pure Declarative Programming. Butterfly - A lightweight library for integrating bug-report and feedback features with shake-motion event. CallbackURLKit - Implementation of x-callback-url (Inter app communication). Closures - Swifty closures for UIKit and Foundation. Curry - Function currying. DeepDiff - Fast diff library. Delegated - Closure-based delegation without memory leaks. Differific - A fast and convenient diffing framework. Dollar - Similar to Lo-Dash or Underscore in Javascript. EZSwiftExtensions - How standard types and classes were supposed to work. FluxCapacitor - FluxCapacitor makes implementing Flux design pattern easily with protocols and typealias. Focus - Optics library (includes Lens, Prisms, and Isos) that is inspired by Haskells Lens library. Highlighter - Highlight whatever you want! Highlighter will magically find UI objects such as UILabel, UITextView, UITexTfield, UIButton in your UITableViewCell or other Class. LifetimeTracker - Surface retain cycle / memory issues right as you develop your application. ObjectiveKit - API for Objective C runtime functions. OpenSourceController - The simplest way to display the libraries licences used in your application. Popsicle - Delightful, extensible value interpolation framework. protobuf-swift - ProtocolBuffers. Prototope - Library of lightweight interfaces for prototyping, bridged to JS. R.swift - Tool to get strong typed, autocompleted resources like images, cells and segues. RandomKit :penguin: - Random data generation. ReadabilityKit - Preview extractor for news, articles and full-texts. ResourceKit - Enable autocomplete use resources. Result - Type modelling the success/failure of arbitrary operations. Runes - Functional operators: flatMap, map, apply. Solar - Calculate sunrise and sunset times given a location. SpriteKit+Spring - SpriteKit API reproducing UIViews spring animations with SKAction. Sugar - Something sweet that goes great with your Cocoa. swift-protobuf :penguin: - A plugin and runtime library for using Googles Protocol Buffer. SwifterSwift - A handy collection of more than 500 native Swift extensions to boost your productivity. SwiftGen-Storyboard - A tool to auto-generate enums for all your Storyboards, Scenes and Segues constants + appropriate convenience accessors. SwiftLinkPreview - It makes a preview from an url, grabbing all information such as title, relevant texts and images. SwiftRandom - A tiny generator of random data. SwiftRater - A utility that reminds your iPhone apps users to review the app. SwiftTweaks - Tweak your iOS app without recompiling. Swiftx - Functional data types and functions for any project. SwiftyUtils - All the reusable code that we need in each project. Swiftz - Functional programming. Then - Super sweet syntactic sugar for initializers. TSAO - Type-Safe Associated Objects in Swift. URLQueryItemEncoder - An Encoder for encoding any Encodable value into an array of URLQueryItem. UTIKit - an UTI (Uniform Type Identifier) wrapper. Vaccine - Make your apps immune to recompile-decease WhatsNew - Showcase new features after an app update similar to Pages, Numbers and Keynote. WhatsNewKit - Showcase your awesome new app features. XestiMonitors - An extensible monitoring framework. Validation A collection of validation libs. back to top FormValidatorSwift - Allows you to validate inputs of text fields and text views in a convenient way. Input Mask - Pattern-based user input formatter, parser and validator for iOS. RxValidator - Simple, Extensible, Flexible Validation Checker SwiftValidator - A rule-based validation library. SwiftValidators - String validation for iOS (inspired by validator.js). Validator - Drop in user input validation for your iOS apps. Phone Numbers back to top PhoneNumberKit - Framework for parsing, formatting and validating international phone numbers. Inspired by Googles libphonenumber. Version Manager back to top AppVersionMonitor - Monitor iOS app version easily. Siren - Notify users when a new version of your app is available and prompt them to upgrade. Version - Version represents and compares semantic versions. Version Tracker Swift - Versions tracker for your iOS, OS X, and tvOS app. Video back to top BMPlayer - A video player for iOS, based on AVPlayer, support the horizontal, vertical screen. support adjust volume, brigtness and seek by slide. MMPlayerView - Custom AVPlayerLayer on view and transition player with good effect like YouTube and Facebook. MobilePlayer - A powerful and completely customizable media player for iOS. NextLevelSessionExporter - Export and transcode media. Player - iOS video player, simple drop in component for playing and streaming media. PlayerView - Easy to use video player using a UIView, manage rate of reproduction, screenshots and callbacks-delegate for player state. PryntTrimmerView - Trim and crop videos. SwiftVideoBackground - Easy to Use UIView subclass for implementating a video background. VGPlayer - A simple iOS video player, support play local and network, background playback mode, automatic caching while playing. Contributing Please take a quick look at the contribution guidelines first. If you see a package or project here that is no longer maintained or is not a good fit, please submit a pull request to improve this file. Thank you to all contributors; you rock!!