iTerm Color Schemes Intro Installation Instructions Contribute Screenshots Credits Extra X11 Installation Konsole color schemes Terminator color schemes Mac OS Terminal color schemes PuTTY color schemes Xfce Terminal color schemes Previewing color schemes Intro This is a set of color schemes for iTerm (aka iTerm2). Screenshots below and in the screenshots directory. Installation Instructions There are 2 ways to install an iTerm theme (both go to the same configuration location): Direct way via keyboard shortcut: Launch iTerm 2. Get the latest version at iterm2.com Type CMD+i (⌘+i) Navigate to Colors tab Click on Color Presets Click on Import Select the .itermcolors file(s) of the scheme(s) youd like to use Click on Color Presets and choose a color scheme Via iTerm preferences Launch iTerm 2. Get the latest version at iterm2.com Click on iTerm2 menu title Select Preferences... option Select Profiles Navigate to Colors tab Click on Color Presets Click on Import Select the .itermcolors file(s) of the schemes youd like to use Click on Color Presets and choose a color scheme Contribute Have a great iTerm theme? Send it to me via a Pull Request! To export your theme settings: Launch iTerm 2 Type CMD+i (⌘+i) Navigate to Colors tab Click on Color Presets Click on Export Save the .itermcolors file To include a screenshot, please generate the output using the screenshotTable.sh script in the tools directory. For screenshot consistency, please have your font set to 13pt Monaco and no transparency on the window Screenshots 3024 Day 3024 Night AdventureTime Afterglow AlienBlood Argonaut Arthur AtelierSulphurpool Atom Atom One Light ayu ayu Light Batman Belafonte Day Belafonte Night BirdsOfParadise Blazer Bluloco Dark Bluloco Light Borland Bright Lights Broadcast Brogrammer Builtin Dark Builtin Light Builtin Pastel Dark Builtin Solarized Dark Builtin Solarized Light Builtin Tango Dark Builtin Tango Light C64 Calamity Chalk Chalkboard ChallengerDeep Ciapre CLRS Cobalt Neon Cobalt2 CrayonPonyFish Dark Pastel Darkside Deep Desert DimmedMonokai DotGov Dracula Duotone Dark Earthsong Elemental Elementary ENCOM Espresso Espresso Libre Fahrenheit Fideloper FirefoxDev Firewatch FishTank Flat Flatland Floraverse Forest Blue FrontEndDelight FunForrest Galaxy Github Glacier Grape Grass Gruvbox Dark Hacktober Hardcore Harper Highway Hipster Green Homebrew Hopscotch Hopscotch 256 Hurtado Hybrid IC_Green_PPL IC_Orange_PPL idleToes IR_Black Jackie Brown Japanesque Jellybeans JetBrains Darcula Kibble Later This Evening Lavandula LiquidCarbon LiquidCarbonTransparent LiquidCarbonTransparentInverse Man Page Material MaterialDark Mathias Medallion Misterioso Molokai MonaLisa Monokai Remastered Monokai Soda Monokai Vivid N0tch2k Neopolitan Neutron NightLion v1 NightLion v2 Novel Nocturnal Winter Obsidian Ocean OceanicMaterial Ollie One Half Dark One Half Light Operator Mono Dark Pandora Parasio Dark PaulMillr Pencil Dark Pencil Light Piatto Light Pnevma Pro Pro Light Purple Peter Purple Rain Rebecca Red Alert Red Planet Red Sands Relaxed Rippedcasts Royal Ryuuko Seafoam Pastel SeaShells Seti Shaman Slate Snazzy Smyck SoftServer Solarized Darcula (With background image) Solarized Darcula (Without background image) Solarized Dark Solarized Dark - Patched Some applications assume the ANSI color code 8 is a gray color. Solarized treats this code as equal to the background. This theme is for people who prefer the former. See issues #59, #62, and #63 for more information. Solarized Dark Higher Contrast Solarized Light SpaceGray SpaceGray Eighties SpaceGray Eighties Dull Spacedust Spiderman Spring Square Sundried Symfonic synthwave Tango Adapted Tango Half Adapted Teerb Terminal Basic Thayer Bright The Hulk Tomorrow Tomorrow Night Tomorrow Night Blue Tomorrow Night Bright Tomorrow Night Eighties Tomorrow Night Burns ToyChest Treehouse Twilight Ubuntu UltraViolent Under The Sea Urple Vaughn VibrantInk Violet Light Violet Dark WarmNeon Wez Whimsy WildCherry Wombat Wryan Zenburn IDEA Drak Credits The schemes Novel, Espresso, Grass, Homebrew, Ocean, Pro, Man Page, Red Sands, and Terminal Basic are ports of the schemes of the same name included with the Mac Terminal application. All of Terminals schemes have now been ported, with the exception of "Solid Colors" (random backgrounds, which iTerm doesnt support) and "Aerogel" (which is hideous). The scheme Violet was created by ashfinal. The scheme idleToes was inspired by the idleFingers TextMate theme and suggested for inclusion by Seth Wilson. The scheme Zenburn was inspired by the Zenburn version created by Suraj N. Kurapati. The scheme Symfonic was inspired by the color scheme used in the documentation for the Symfony PHP Framework. The synthwave theme was created by brettstil The scheme Github was inspired by the color theme palette used at Github for their UI and in some of their mascot images. The scheme Solarized Darcula was inspired by the color theme created by @rickhanlonii. There are two screenshots below; one with a background and one without. The background image is included in the backgrounds/ directory and the image must be manually set on the profiles Preferences->Window tab. Its hard to see from the screenshot, but it looks great! The theme Hurtado was found here. The theme Molokai was based on the vim colorscheme of the same name. The theme Monokai Soda was found here. The theme Monokai Vivid was created by vitalymak. The theme Neopolitan was created by daytonn The themes Solarized Dark and Solarized Light come from the official Solarized web site The Obsidian theme was on my hard drive and I dont recall where it came from. If anyone knows, ping me and Ill link back to the author(s). The Spacedust theme was created by mhallendal and ported to iTerm by Couto The theme Mathias was created by mathiasbynens The LiquidCarbon themes were created by markcho The NightLion themes were created by Curvve Media The Tomorrow themes were created by chriskempson The Tomorrow Night Burns theme were created by ashwinv11 The Twilight theme was created by stefri The Teerb theme was created by Teerb The IR_Black theme was found here The Misterioso theme was created by flooose The Hybrid theme was found here The Thayer Bright theme was found here The Spring theme was found here The Smyck theme was found here The Forest Blue theme was found here The Cobalt2 theme was created by wesbos The Operator Mono Dark was ported from vharadkou by dreamyguy The WarmNeon theme was ported from PyCharm by firewut The SpaceGray theme was created by ryentzer The Jellybeans theme was created by qtpi The PaulMillr theme was created by paulmillr and ported to iTerm by me The Harper theme was created by idleberg The CLRS theme was created by jasonlong The Dracula theme was created by zenorocha The themes AdventureTime, AlienBlood, BirdsOfParadise, Ciapre, CrayonPonyFish, DimmedMonokai, Earthsong, Elemental, FishTank, FrontEndDelight, FunForrest, Grape, Highway, IC_Green_PPL, IC_Orange_PPL, Lavandula, Medallion, MonaLisa, Ollie, Royal, SeaShells, Shaman, SoftServer, Sundried, ToyChest, Treehouse, and Urple were created by zdj The Japanesque theme was created by aereal The Seti theme was created by jesseweed and ported to iTerm2 by philduffy and slightly modified to make the ANSI blacks have a little more contrast The Hipster Green and Jackie Brown themes were created by Unkulunkulu The Chalk theme was created by achalv The Pencil Dark and Pencil Light themes were created by mattly The Flat theme was created by ahmetsulek The Atom, Brogrammer, Glacier and Darkside themes were created by bahlo The Afterglow theme was created by yabatadesign The Broadcast theme was created by vinkla The Arthur, N0tch2k, Pnevma, Square, and Wryan themes were created by baskerville The Belafonte Day, Belafonte Night, Paraiso Dark, and C64 themes were created by idleberg The 3024 Day and 3024 Night themes were created by 0x3024 The Argonaut theme was created by effkay The Espresso Libre theme was created by jurgemaister The Hardcore theme was created by hardcore The Rippedcasts theme was created by mdw123 The Solorized Dark Higher Contrast theme was created by heisters The VibrantInk theme was created by asanghi The Wez theme was created by wez The Wombat theme was created by djoyner The WildCherry theme was created by mashaal The Flatland theme was created by realchaseadams The Neutron theme was created by Ch4s3 The Fideloper theme was inspired by Fideloper The Later This Evening theme was created by vilhalmer The Galaxy theme was created by jglovier The Slate theme was created by deneshshan The SpaceGray Eighties and SpaceGray Eighties Dull themes were created by mhkeller The Borland theme was created by delip The Cobalt Neon theme was created by vazquez The AtelierSulphurpool theme was created by atelierbram The Batman, Spiderman, and The Hulk themes were created by pyrophos The ENCOM theme was created by Josh Braun The Floraverse theme was created by papayakitty The Material and MaterialDark themes were created by stoeffel The OceanicMaterial theme was created by rahulpatel The AtomOneLight theme was created by iamstarkov The Piatto Light theme was created by kovv The DotGov theme was inspired by the color palette used in the U.S. Web Design Standards The DuoTone Dark theme was created by chibicode based on simurais duotone-dark Atom theme. The JetBrains Darcula theme was created by vitstr The Bright Lights theme was created by tw15egan The Ubuntu theme was inspired by default Ubuntus console colors. Created by Maximus and ported to iTerm2 by stepin. The Under The Sea theme was created by peterpme The One Half themes were created by sonph, based on Atoms One with some tweakings. The FirefoxDev theme was created by Or3stis The Ryuuko theme was created by dylanaraps and added by iandrewt The Firewatch theme was created by Sebastian Szturo as an atom syntax theme and ported to an iTerm scheme by Ben Styles. It was originally inspired by the Firewatch game. The Pandora theme was created by milosmatic The Elementary OS theme was created by elementary.io and added by 987poiuytrewq The Gruvbox Dark theme was created by morhetz and added by mcchrish The Ayu and Ayu Light themes were created by alebcay The Deep theme was created by ADoyle The Red Planet theme was created by ibrokemypie based on eliquiouss Red Planet Sublime Text theme. The Tango Adapted theme and its slightly less bright counterpart Tango Half Adapted were created by crowsonkb, based on iTerm2s Tango Light theme. The Pro Light theme was adapted from the Pro theme by crowsonkb using her iterm_schemer tool. The Fahrenheit theme was created by jonascarpay based on fcpgs vim-fahrenheit Vim theme. The Calamity theme was created by Pustur The Purple Peter theme was created by DeChamp The Purple Rain theme was created by msorre2 The ChallengerDeep theme was found here and ported to iTerm by eendroroy The Hopscotch theme was created by Jan T. Sott The Nocturnal Winter theme was created by Shriram Balaji The Rebecca theme was created vic based on his emacs rebecca-theme The Whimsy theme was created by Rod If there are other color schemes youd like to see included, drop me a line! Extra X11 Installation To install under the X Window System: Import the .xrdb file of the scheme youd like to use: #include "/home/mbadolato/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/xrdb/Blazer.xrdb" Use the #defines provided by the imported .xrdb file: Rxvt*color0: Ansi_0_Color Rxvt*color1: Ansi_1_Color Rxvt*color2: Ansi_2_Color Rxvt*color3: Ansi_3_Color Rxvt*color4: Ansi_4_Color Rxvt*color5: Ansi_5_Color Rxvt*color6: Ansi_6_Color Rxvt*color7: Ansi_7_Color Rxvt*color8: Ansi_8_Color Rxvt*color9: Ansi_9_Color Rxvt*color10: Ansi_10_Color Rxvt*color11: Ansi_11_Color Rxvt*color12: Ansi_12_Color Rxvt*color13: Ansi_13_Color Rxvt*color14: Ansi_14_Color Rxvt*color15: Ansi_15_Color Rxvt*colorBD: Bold_Color Rxvt*colorIT: Italic_Color Rxvt*colorUL: Underline_Color Rxvt*foreground: Foreground_Color Rxvt*background: Background_Color Rxvt*cursorColor: Cursor_Color XTerm*color0: Ansi_0_Color XTerm*color1: Ansi_1_Color XTerm*color2: Ansi_2_Color XTerm*color3: Ansi_3_Color XTerm*color4: Ansi_4_Color XTerm*color5: Ansi_5_Color XTerm*color6: Ansi_6_Color XTerm*color7: Ansi_7_Color XTerm*color8: Ansi_8_Color XTerm*color9: Ansi_9_Color XTerm*color10: Ansi_10_Color XTerm*color11: Ansi_11_Color XTerm*color12: Ansi_12_Color XTerm*color13: Ansi_13_Color XTerm*color14: Ansi_14_Color XTerm*color15: Ansi_15_Color XTerm*colorBD: Bold_Color XTerm*colorIT: Italic_Color XTerm*colorUL: Underline_Color XTerm*foreground: Foreground_Color XTerm*background: Background_Color XTerm*cursorColor: Cursor_Color Store the above snippets in a file and pass it in: $ xrdb -merge YOUR_FILE_CONTAINING_ABOVE_SNIPPETS Open new XTerm or Rxvt windows to see the changes. Adapt this procedure to other terminals as needed. Terminator color schemes Edit your Terminator configuration file (located in: $HOME/.config/terminator/config) and add the configurations for the theme(s) youd like to use the [profiles] section. The terminator/ directory contains the config snippets youll need. Just paste the configurations into the [profiles] sections, and youre good to go! At a minimum, this is all you need. You can customize the fonts and other aspects as well, if you wish. See the Terminator documentation for more details. An example config file that includes the code snippet for the Symfonic theme would look like this: ini [global_config] [keybindings] [profiles] [[default]] palette = "#1a1a1a:#f4005f:#98e024:#fa8419:#9d65ff:#f4005f:#58d1eb:#c4c5b5:#625e4c:#f4005f:#98e024:#e0d561:#9d65ff:#f4005f:#58d1eb:#f6f6ef" background_image = None use_system_font = False cursor_color = "#f6f7ec" foreground_color = "#c4c5b5" font = Source Code Pro Light 11 background_color = "#1a1a1a" [[Symfonic]] palette = "#000000:#dc322f:#56db3a:#ff8400:#0084d4:#b729d9:#ccccff:#ffffff:#1b1d21:#dc322f:#56db3a:#ff8400:#0084d4:#b729d9:#ccccff:#ffffff" background_color = "#000000" cursor_color = "#dc322f" foreground_color = "#ffffff" background_image = None [layouts] [[default]] [[[child1]]] type = Terminal parent = window0 [[[window0]]] type = Window parent = "" [plugins] Konsole color schemes Copy the themes from the konsole directory to $HOME/.config/konsole (in some versions of KDE, the theme directory may be located at $HOME/.local/share/konsole), restart Konsole and choose your new theme from the profile preferences window. If you want to make the themes available to all users, copy the .colorscheme files to /usr/share/konsole. Terminal color schemes Just double click on selected theme in terminal directory PuTTY color schemes New Session Method This method creates a new blank session with JUST colors set properly. Download the appropriate colorscheme.reg file and import the registry changes by right-clicking and choosing Merge. Choose "Yes" when prompted if youre sure. Color scheme will show up as a new PuTTY session with all defaults except entries at Window > Colours > Adjust the precise colours PuTTY displays. Modify Session Method This method modifies an existing session and changes JUST the color settings. Download the appropriate colorscheme.reg file. Open the file with a text editor and change the color scheme portion (Molokai below) to match the session you want to modify: [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\SimonTatham\PuTTY\Sessions\Molokai] - CHANGE TO (EXAMPLE) - [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\SimonTatham\PuTTY\Sessions\root@localhost] NOTE: Some special characters will need to be changed to their Percent-encoded representation (IE, Space as %20). To quickly find the right session name view the top-level entries at HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\SimonTatham\PuTTY\Sessions\ with regedit.exe. Other PuTTY Recommendations Window > Apprearance Font: Consolas, bold, 14-point Font quality: ( ) Antialiased ( ) Non-Antialiased (O) ClearType ( ) Default Window > Colours [X] Allow terminal to specify ANSI colours [X] Allow terminal to use xterm 256-colour mode Indicate bolded text by changing: ( ) The font (O) The colour ( ) Both [ ] Attempt to use logical palettes [ ] Use system colours Xfce Terminal color schemes Copy the colorschemes folder to ~/.local/share/xfce4/terminal/ and restart Terminal. Previewing color schemes preview.rb is a simple script that allows you to preview the color schemes without having to import them. It parses .itermcolors files and applies the colors to the current session using iTerms proprietary escape codes. As noted in the linked page, it doesnt run on tmux or screen. ```sh Apply AdventureTime scheme to the current session tools/preview.rb schemes/AdventureTime.itermcolors Apply the schemes in turn. - Press (almost) any key to advance; hit CTRL-C or ESC to stop - Press the delete key to go back tools/preview.rb schemes/* ``` iTerm Color Schemes | iTerm2 Color Schemes | iTerm 2 Color Schemes | iTerm Themes | iTerm2 Themes | iTerm 2 Themes