Updated for Swift 4 Requires Xcode 9 and Swift 4. Installation Drop in the Spring folder to your Xcode project (make sure to enable "Copy items if needed" and "Create groups"). Or via CocoaPods: use_frameworks! pod Spring, :git => https://github.com/MengTo/Spring.git Usage with Storyboard In Identity Inspector, connect the UIView to SpringView Class and set the animation properties in Attribute Inspector. Usage with Code layer.animation = "squeezeDown" layer.animate() Demo The Animations Chaining Animations layer.y = -50 animateToNext { layer.animation = "fall" layer.animateTo() } Functions animate() animateNext { ... } animateTo() animateToNext { ... } Animation shake pop morph squeeze wobble swing flipX flipY fall squeezeLeft squeezeRight squeezeDown squeezeUp slideLeft slideRight slideDown slideUp fadeIn fadeOut fadeInLeft fadeInRight fadeInDown fadeInUp zoomIn zoomOut flash Curve spring linear easeIn easeOut easeInOut Properties force duration delay damping velocity repeatCount scale x y rotate * Not all properties work together. Play with the demo app. Autostart Allows you to animate without code. Dont need to use this if you plan to start the animation in code. Autohide Saves you the hassle of adding a line "layer.alpha = 0" in viewDidLoad(). Known issue Animations wont autostart when view is reached via performSegueWithIdentifier. Tutorials Tutorials available on Design+Code. Integrate Spring to existing Objective-C projects ChangeLog At ChangeLog wiki page License Spring is released under the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.