AngularStrap AngularStrap is a set of native directives that enables seamless integration of Bootstrap 3.0+ into your AngularJS 1.2+ app. With no external dependency except the Bootstrap CSS Styles, AngularStrap is lighter and faster than ever as it does leverage the power of ngAnimate from AngularJS 1.2+! AngularStrap is tested against the latest patch release of the 1.2, 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5 branches. If you dont want to use ngAnimate, you will have to include a tiny ngAnimate mock. Looking for maintainers! Were currently looking for aspiring maintainers to tackle issues and pull requests! I (mgcrea) have not worked on any Angular.js v1 codebase for more than a year now. For me its time to move on! If you have an ongoing project depending on AngularStrap, and would like to become a contributor, please chime in on issue #2256 Documentation and examples Check the documentation and changelog. Communication If you need help, use Stack Overflow. (Tag angular-strap) If youd like to ask a general question, use Stack Overflow. If you found a bug, open an issue. If you have a feature request, open an issue. If you want to contribute, submit a pull request. Quick start Install AngularStrap with Bower. bash $ bower install angular-strap --save Include the required libraries in your index.html: html <script src="bower_components/angular/angular.js"></script> <script src="bower_components/angular-animate/angular-animate.js"></script> <script src="bower_components/angular-strap/dist/angular-strap.min.js"></script> <script src="bower_components/angular-strap/dist/angular-strap.tpl.min.js"></script> Inject the mgcrea.ngStrap module into your app: js angular.module(myApp, [ngAnimate, mgcrea.ngStrap]); Developers Clone the repo, git clone git://github.com/mgcrea/angular-strap.git, download the latest release or install with bower bower install angular-strap --save. You will need to have bower installed globally into your node environment. bash $ npm install -g bower AngularStrap is tested with karma against the latest stable release of AngularJS. AngularStrap uses gulp@4.0, you must use the local gulp instance with $(npm bin)/gulp for it to work (or use an alias). ```bash $ npm install $ bower install $ cd docs $ bower install $ cd .. $ npm test or $ npm run test:watch ``` You can build the latest version using gulp. bash $ $(npm bin)/gulp build You can quickly hack around (the docs) with: bash $ $(npm bin)/gulp serve You can browse to http://localhost:9090/dev.html to work on a specific directive. Contributing Please submit all pull requests the against master branch. If your pull request contains JavaScript patches or features, you should include relevant unit tests. Please check the Contributing Guidelines for more details. Thanks! Authors Olivier Louvignes http://olouv.com http://github.com/mgcrea Copyright and license ``` The MIT License Copyright (c) 2012 – 2015 Olivier Louvignes Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. ```