ChakraCore ChakraCore is the core part of Chakra, the high-performance JavaScript engine that powers Microsoft Edge and Windows applications written in HTML/CSS/JS. ChakraCore supports Just-in-time (JIT) compilation of JavaScript for x86/x64/ARM, garbage collection, and a wide range of the latest JavaScript features. ChakraCore also supports the JavaScript Runtime (JSRT) APIs, which allows you to easily embed ChakraCore in your applications. You can stay up-to-date on progress by following the MSEdge developer blog. Build Status | | Debug | Test | Release | |:-----------------------------:|:---------:|:--------:|:-----------:| | Windows (x64) | | | | | Windows (x86) | | | | | Windows (ARM) | | | | | Ubuntu 16.04 (x64)[a] | | | | | Ubuntu 16.04 (x64)[s] | | | | | Ubuntu 16.04 (x64)[s][n] | * | | * | | OS X 10.9 (x64)[a] | | | | | OS X 10.9 (x64)[s][n] | * | | * | [a] Static | [s] Shared | [n] NoJIT | * Omitted Above is a table of our rolling build status. We run additional builds on a daily basis. See Build Status for the status of all builds and additional details. Security If you believe you have found a security issue in ChakraCore, please share it with us privately following the guidance at the Microsoft Security TechCenter. Reporting it via this channel helps minimize risk to projects built with ChakraCore. Documentation ChakraCore Architecture Quickstart Embedding ChakraCore JSRT Reference Contribution guidelines Blogs, talks and other resources Building ChakraCore You can build ChakraCore on Windows 7 SP1 or above, and Windows Server 2008 R2 or above, with either Visual Studio 2015 or 2017 with C++ support installed. Once you have Visual Studio installed: Clone ChakraCore through git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/ChakraCore.git Open Build\Chakra.Core.sln in Visual Studio Build Solution More details in Building ChakraCore. Alternatively, see Getting ChakraCore binaries for pre-built ChakraCore binaries. Using ChakraCore Once built, you have a few options for how you can use ChakraCore: The most basic is to test the engine is running correctly with the ch.exe binary. This app is a lightweight hosting of JSRT that you can use to run small applications. After building, you can find this binary in: Build\VcBuild\bin\${platform}_${configuration} (e.g. Build\VcBuild\bin\x64_debug) You can embed ChakraCore in your applications - see documentation and samples. Finally, you can also use ChakraCore as the JavaScript engine in Node. You can learn more by reading how to use Chakra as Nodes JS engine A note about using ChakraCore: ChakraCore is the foundational JavaScript engine, but it does not include the external APIs that make up the modern JavaScript development experience. For example, DOM APIs like document.write() are additional APIs that are not available by default and would need to be provided. For debugging, you may instead want to use print(). Contribute Contributions to ChakraCore are welcome. Here is how you can contribute to ChakraCore: Submit bugs and help us verify fixes (please refer to External Issues for anything external, such as Microsoft Edge or Node-ChakraCore issues) Submit pull requests for bug fixes and features and discuss existing proposals Chat about @ChakraCore on Twitter This project has adopted the Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct. For more information see the Code of Conduct FAQ or contact opencode@microsoft.com with any additional questions or comments. Please refer to Contribution Guidelines for more details. License Code licensed under the MIT License. Roadmap For details on our planned features and future direction please refer to our Roadmap. Contact Us If you have questions about ChakraCore, or you would like to reach out to us about an issue youre having or for development advice as you work on a ChakraCore issue, you can reach us as follows: Open an issue and prefix the issue title with [Question]. See Question tag for already-opened questions. Discuss ChakraCore with the team and the community on our Gitter Channel. You can also start private messages with individual ChakraCore developers via Gitter.