Napa.js Napa.js is a multi-threaded JavaScript runtime built on V8, which was originally designed to develop highly iterative services with non-compromised performance in Bing. As it evolves, we find it useful to complement Node.js in CPU-bound tasks, with the capability of executing JavaScript in multiple V8 isolates and communicating between them. Napa.js is exposed as a Node.js module, while it can also be embedded in a host process without Node.js dependency. Installation Install the latest stable version: npm install napajs Other options can be found in Build Napa.js. Quick Start ```js var napa = require(napajs); var zone1 = napa.zone.create(zone1, { workers: 4 }); // Broadcast code to all 4 workers in zone1. zone1.broadcast(console.log("hello world");); // Execute an anonymous function in any worker thread in zone1. zone1.execute( (text) => text, [hello napa]) .then((result) => { console.log(result.value); }); ``` More examples: Estimate PI in parallel Max sub-matrix of 1s with layered parallelism Parallel Quick Sort Recursive Fibonacci with multiple JavaScript threads * Synchronized loading Features Multi-threaded JavaScript runtime Node.js compatible module architecture with NPM support API for object transportation, object sharing and synchronization across JavaScript threads API for pluggable logging, metric and memory allocator Distributed as a Node.js module, as well as supporting embed scenarios Documentation Napa.js Home API Reference FAQ Contribute You can contribute to Napa.js in following ways: Report issues and help us verify fixes as they are checked in. Review the source code changes. Contribute to core module compatibility with Node. Contribute bug fixes. This project has adopted the Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct. For more information see the Code of Conduct FAQ or contact opencode@microsoft.com with any additional questions or comments. License Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. Licensed under the MIT License.