Monaco Editor The Monaco Editor is the code editor that powers VS Code, a good page describing the code editors features is here. Try it out See the editor in action on the website. Installing $ npm install monaco-editor You will get: inside esm: ESM version of the editor (compatible with e.g. webpack) inside dev: AMD bundled, not minified inside min: AMD bundled, and minified inside min-maps: source maps for min * monaco.d.ts: this specifies the API of the editor (this is what is actually versioned, everything else is considered private and might break with any release). It is recommended to develop against the dev version, and in production to use the min version. Documentation Learn how to integrate the editor with these complete samples. Integrate the AMD version. Integrate the AMD version cross-domain Integrate the ESM version Learn how to use the editor API and try out your own customizations in the playground. Explore the API docs or read them straight from monaco.d.ts. Read this guide to ensure the editor is accessible to all your users! Create a Monarch tokenizer for a new programming language in the Monarch playground. Ask questions on StackOverflow! Search open and closed issues, there are a lot of tips in there! Issues Create issues in this repository for anything Monaco Editor related. Always mention the version of the editor when creating issues and the browser youre having trouble in. Please search for existing issues to avoid duplicates. Known issues In IE 11, the editor must be completely surrounded in the body element, otherwise the hit testing we do for mouse operations does not work. You can inspect this using F12 and clicking on the body element and confirm that visually it surrounds the editor. FAQ ❓ What is the relationship between VS Code and the Monaco Editor? The Monaco Editor is generated straight from VS Codes sources with some shims around services the code needs to make it run in a web browser outside of its home. ❓ What is the relationship between VS Codes version and the Monaco Editors version? None. The Monaco Editor is a library and it reflects directly the source code. ❓ Ive written an extension for VS Code, will it work on the Monaco Editor in a browser? No. Note: If the extension is fully based on the LSP and if the language server is authored in JavaScript, then it would be possible. ❓ Why all these web workers and why should I care? Language services create web workers to compute heavy stuff outside the UI thread. They cost hardly anything in terms of resource overhead and you shouldnt worry too much about them, as long as you get them to work (see above the cross-domain case). ❓ What is this loader.js? Can I use require.js? It is an AMD loader that we use in VS Code. Yes. ❓ I see the warning "Could not create web worker". What should I do? HTML5 does not allow pages loaded on file:// to create web workers. Please load the editor with a web server on http:// or https:// schemes. Please also see the cross domain case above. ❓ Is the editor supported in mobile browsers or mobile web app frameworks? No. ❓ Why doesnt the editor support TextMate grammars? all the regular expressions in TM grammars are based on oniguruma, a regular expression library written in C. the only way to interpret the grammars and get anywhere near original fidelity is to use the exact same regular expression library (with its custom syntax constructs) in VSCode, our runtime is node.js and we can use a node native module that exposes the library to JavaScript in Monaco, we are constrained to a browser environment where we cannot do anything similar we have experimented with Emscripten to compile the C library to asm.js, but performance was very poor even in Firefox (10x slower) and extremely poor in Chrome (100x slower). we can revisit this once WebAssembly gets traction in the major browsers, but we will still need to consider the browser matrix we support. i.e. if we support IE11 and only Edge will add WebAssembly support, what will the experience be in IE11, etc. Development setup Please see CONTRIBUTING Code of Conduct This project has adopted the Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct. For more information see the Code of Conduct FAQ or contact opencode@microsoft.com with any additional questions or comments. License MIT