Visual Studio Code - Open Source VS Code is a new type of tool that combines the simplicity of a code editor with what developers need for their core edit-build-debug cycle. Code provides comprehensive editing and debugging support, an extensibility model, and lightweight integration with existing tools. VS Code is updated monthly with new features and bug fixes. You can download it for Windows, macOS, and Linux on VS Codes website. To get the latest releases every day, you can install the Insiders version of VS Code. This builds from the master branch and is updated at least daily. The vscode repository is where we do development and there are many ways you can participate in the project, for example: Submit bugs and feature requests and help us verify as they are checked in. Review source code changes. Review the documentation and make pull requests for anything from typos to new content. Contributing If you are interested in fixing issues and contributing directly to the code base, please see the document How to Contribute, which covers the following: How to build and run from source The development workflow, including debugging and running tests Coding Guidelines Submitting pull requests Contributing to translations Please see also our Code of Conduct. Feedback Ask a question on Stack Overflow. Request a new feature on GitHub. Vote for popular feature requests. File a bug in GitHub Issues. Tweet us with other feedback. Related Projects Many of the core components and extensions to Code live in their own repositories on GitHub. For example, the node debug adapter and the mono debug adapter. For a complete list, please see the Related Projects page on our wiki. License Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. Licensed under the MIT License.