TypeScript TypeScript is a language for application-scale JavaScript. TypeScript adds optional types, classes, and modules to JavaScript. TypeScript supports tools for large-scale JavaScript applications for any browser, for any host, on any OS. TypeScript compiles to readable, standards-based JavaScript. Try it out at the playground, and stay up to date via our blog and Twitter account. Installing For the latest stable version: bash npm install -g typescript For our nightly builds: bash npm install -g typescript@next Contribute There are many ways to contribute to TypeScript. Submit bugs and help us verify fixes as they are checked in. Review the source code changes. Engage with other TypeScript users and developers on StackOverflow. Join the #typescript discussion on Twitter. Contribute bug fixes. Read the language specification (docx, pdf, md). This project has adopted the Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct. For more information see the Code of Conduct FAQ or contact opencode@microsoft.com with any additional questions or comments. Documentation Quick tutorial Programming handbook Language specification Homepage Building In order to build the TypeScript compiler, ensure that you have Git and Node.js installed. Clone a copy of the repo: bash git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript.git Change to the TypeScript directory: bash cd TypeScript Install Jake tools and dev dependencies: bash npm install -g jake npm install Use one of the following to build and test: jake local # Build the compiler into built/local jake clean # Delete the built compiler jake LKG # Replace the last known good with the built one. # Bootstrapping step to be executed when the built compiler reaches a stable state. jake tests # Build the test infrastructure using the built compiler. jake runtests # Run tests using the built compiler and test infrastructure. # You can override the host or specify a test for this command. # Use host=<hostName> or tests=<testPath>. jake runtests-browser # Runs the tests using the built run.js file. Syntax is jake runtests. Optional parameters host=, tests=[regex], reporter=[list|spec|json|<more>]. jake baseline-accept # This replaces the baseline test results with the results obtained from jake runtests. jake lint # Runs tslint on the TypeScript source. jake help # List the above commands. Usage bash node built/local/tsc.js hello.ts Roadmap For details on our planned features and future direction please refer to our roadmap.