MaterialDrawer Does your application contain a Drawer? Do you want to have it up and running in less than 5 minutes? Do you want your drawer to follow the Android Design Guidelines? Do you have profiles? Do you need flexibility? Is Googles navigation Drawer of the design support not enough for you? Do you want a simple and easy to understand api? If any (or all) of these questions seem familiar, the MaterialDrawer is the perfect library for you all. Never waste your time again. It provides you with the easiest possible implementation of a navigation drawer for your application. There is a Header with profiles (AccountHeader), a MiniDrawer for Tablets (like Gmail), provide custom DrawerItems, custom colors, custom themes, ... No limits for customizations. A quick overview of whats in it the easiest possible integration integrate in less than 5 minutes compatible down to API Level 14 includes an AccountSwitcher quick and simple api follows the Google Material Design Guidelines use vector (.svg) icons and icon fonts via the Android-Iconics integration Google Material Design Icons, Google Material Community Design Icons, FontAwesome and more comes with various themes which help to get your own themes clean modify the colors on the go uses the AppCompat support library comes with multiple default drawer items based on a RecyclerView RTL support Gmail like MiniDrawer expandable items badge support define custom drawer items tested and stable sticky footer or headers absolutely NO limits If you upgrade from < 5.9.0 follow the MIGRATION GUIDE Preview Demo You can try it out here Google Play (wall:splash an open source application which uses this drawer implementation). Or you try the Sample Application Screenshots WIKI / FAQ You can find some frequently asked questions and other resources in the WIKI / FAQ site. Setup 1. Provide the gradle dependency ```gradle implementation("com.mikepenz:materialdrawer:6.0.8@aar") { transitive = true } //required support lib modules implementation "com.android.support:appcompat-v7:${versions.supportLib}" implementation "com.android.support:recyclerview-v7:${versions.supportLib}" implementation "com.android.support:support-annotations:${versions.supportLib}" implementation "com.android.support:design:${versions.supportLib}" ``` 2. Add your drawer java new DrawerBuilder().withActivity(this).build(); Great. Your drawer is now ready to use. Additional Setup Add items and adding some functionality ```java //if you want to update the items at a later time it is recommended to keep it in a variable PrimaryDrawerItem item1 = new PrimaryDrawerItem().withIdentifier(1).withName(R.string.drawer_item_home); SecondaryDrawerItem item2 = new SecondaryDrawerItem().withIdentifier(2).withName(R.string.drawer_item_settings); //create the drawer and remember the Drawer result object Drawer result = new DrawerBuilder() .withActivity(this) .withToolbar(toolbar) .addDrawerItems( item1, new DividerDrawerItem(), item2, new SecondaryDrawerItem().withName(R.string.drawer_item_settings) ) .withOnDrawerItemClickListener(new Drawer.OnDrawerItemClickListener() { @Override public boolean onItemClick(View view, int position, IDrawerItem drawerItem) { // do something with the clicked item :D } }) .build(); ``` Selecting an item java //set the selection to the item with the identifier 1 result.setSelection(1); //set the selection to the item with the identifier 2 result.setSelection(item2); //set the selection and also fire the `onItemClick`-listener result.setSelection(1, true); By default, when a drawer item is clicked, it becomes the new selected item. If this isnt the expected behavior, you can disable it for this item using withSelectable(false): java new SecondaryDrawerItem().withName(R.string.drawer_item_dialog).withSelectable(false) Modify items or the drawer ```java //modify an item of the drawer item1.withName("A new name for this drawerItem").withBadge("19").withBadgeStyle(new BadgeStyle().withTextColor(Color.WHITE).withColorRes(R.color.md_red_700)); //notify the drawer about the updated element. it will take care about everything else result.updateItem(item1); //to update only the name, badge, icon you can also use one of the quick methods result.updateName(1, "A new name"); //the result object also allows you to add new items, remove items, add footer, sticky footer, .. result.addItem(new DividerDrawerItem()); result.addStickyFooterItem(new PrimaryDrawerItem().withName("StickyFooterItem")); //remove items with an identifier result.removeItem(2); //open / close the drawer result.openDrawer(); result.closeDrawer(); //get the reference to the DrawerLayout itself result.getDrawerLayout(); ``` Add profiles and an AccountHeader ```java // Create the AccountHeader AccountHeader headerResult = new AccountHeaderBuilder() .withActivity(this) .withHeaderBackground(R.drawable.header) .addProfiles( new ProfileDrawerItem().withName("Mike Penz").withEmail("mikepenz@gmail.com").withIcon(getResources().getDrawable(R.drawable.profile)) ) .withOnAccountHeaderListener(new AccountHeader.OnAccountHeaderListener() { @Override public boolean onProfileChanged(View view, IProfile profile, boolean currentProfile) { return false; } }) .build(); //Now create your drawer and pass the AccountHeader.Result new DrawerBuilder() .withAccountHeader(headerResult) //additional Drawer setup as shown above ... .build(); ``` Use the included icon font The MaterialDrawer comes with the core of the Android-Iconics library. This allows you to create your DrawerItems with an icon from any font. Choose the fonts you need. Available Fonts build.gradle gradle compile com.mikepenz:google-material-typeface:x.y.z@aar //Google Material Icons compile com.mikepenz:fontawesome-typeface:x.y.z@aar //FontAwesome java java //now you can simply use any icon of the Google Material Icons font new PrimaryDrawerItem().withIcon(GoogleMaterial.Icon.gmd_wb_sunny) //Or an icon from FontAwesome new SecondaryDrawerItem().withIcon(FontAwesome.Icon.faw_github) Advanced Setup Activity with ActionBar Code: java new DrawerBuilder() .withActivity(this) .withTranslucentStatusBar(false) .withActionBarDrawerToggle(false) .addDrawerItems( //pass your items here ) .build(); Activity with Multiple Drawers Code: ```java Drawer result = new DrawerBuilder() .withActivity(this) .withToolbar(toolbar) .addDrawerItems( //pass your items here ) .build(); new DrawerBuilder() .withActivity(this) .addDrawerItems( //pass your items here ) .withDrawerGravity(Gravity.END) .append(result); ``` Load images via url The MaterialDrawer supports fetching images from URLs and setting them for the Profile icons. As the MaterialDrawer does not contain an ImageLoading library the dev can choose his own implementation (Picasso, Glide, ...). This has to be done, before the first image should be loaded via URL. (Should be done in the Application, but any other spot before loading the first image is working too) SAMPLE using PICASSO SAMPLE using GLIDE Code: ```java //initialize and create the image loader logic DrawerImageLoader.init(new AbstractDrawerImageLoader() { @Override public void set(ImageView imageView, Uri uri, Drawable placeholder) { Picasso.with(imageView.getContext()).load(uri).placeholder(placeholder).into(imageView); } @Override public void cancel(ImageView imageView) { Picasso.with(imageView.getContext()).cancelRequest(imageView); } /* @Override public Drawable placeholder(Context ctx) { return super.placeholder(ctx); } @Override public Drawable placeholder(Context ctx, String tag) { return super.placeholder(ctx, tag); } */ }); ``` An implementation with GLIDE can be found in the sample application Switching between Back-Arrow or Hamburger-Icon If you use the included ActionBarDrawerToggle you can switch between back-arrow or hamburger-icon with the following code snippet. (Please note that the order of these lines matter) Code - Show the back arrow: java result.getActionBarDrawerToggle().setDrawerIndicatorEnabled(false); getSupportActionBar().setDisplayHomeAsUpEnabled(true); Code - Show the hamburger icon: java getSupportActionBar().setDisplayHomeAsUpEnabled(false); result.getActionBarDrawerToggle().setDrawerIndicatorEnabled(true); AndroidManifest.xml The MaterialDrawer requires an AppCompat theme or a derivative theme like the MaterialDrawerThemes as base. It is highly recommended to use one of the provided themes. They all use the AppCompat theme as parent and define the color values for the drawer. NOTE: The theme states ActionBar and not NoActionBar like the Appcompat style MaterialDrawerTheme (extends Theme.AppCompat.NoActionBar) MaterialDrawerTheme.TranslucentStatus MaterialDrawerTheme.ActionBar (extends Theme.AppCompat) MaterialDrawerTheme.ActionBar.TranslucentStatus MaterialDrawerTheme.Light (extends Theme.AppCompat.Light.NoActionBar) MaterialDrawerTheme.Light.TranslucentStatus MaterialDrawerTheme.Light.ActionBar (extends Theme.AppCompat.Light) MaterialDrawerTheme.Light.ActionBar.TranslucentStatus MaterialDrawerTheme.Light.DarkToolbar (extends Theme.AppCompat.DarkActionBar) (disabled the ActionBar) MaterialDrawerTheme.Light.DarkToolbar.TranslucentStatus MaterialDrawerTheme.Light.DarkToolbar.ActionBar (extends Theme.AppCompat.DarkActionBar) MaterialDrawerTheme.Light.DarkToolbar.ActionBar.TranslucentStatus Style the drawer Use of a none MaterialDrawer.* style If you dont use one of the provided styles you have to add the style values to your style. Heres a simple sample. This is the same as the Custom style just with a parent like parent="Theme.AppCompat.Light.DarkActionBar" Custom style - styles.xml Create your custom style and use one of the provided themes as parent. If you dont need a custom theme see the next section, how you can set the colors just by overwriting the original colors. ```xml