MJML 4 If youre looking for MJML 3.3.X check this branch | Introduction | Installation | Usage | Contribute | Introduction MJML is a markup language created by Mailjet and designed to reduce the pain of coding a responsive email. Its semantic syntax makes it easy and straightforward while its rich standard components library fastens your development time and lightens your email codebase. MJMLs open-source engine takes care of translating the MJML you wrote into responsive HTML. Installation You can install MJML with NPM to use it with NodeJS or the Command Line Interface. If youre not sure what those are, head over to Usage for other ways to use MJML. bash npm install mjml Development To work on MJML, make changes and create merge requests, download and install yarn for easy development. bash git clone https://github.com/mjmlio/mjml.git && cd mjml yarn yarn build You can also run yarn build:watch to rebuild the package as you code. Usage Online Dont want to install anything? Use the free online editor! Applications and plugins MJML comes with an ecosystem of tools and plugins, check out: - The MJML App (MJML is included) - Visual Studio Code plugin (MJML is included) - Atom plugin (MJML needs to be installed separately) - Sublime Text plugin (MJML needs to be installed separately) For more tools, check the Community page. Command line interface Compiles the file and outputs the HTML generated in output.html bash mjml input.mjml -o output.html You can pass optional arguments to the CLI and combine them. argument | description | default value ---------|--------|-------------- mjml -m [input] | Migrates a v3 MJML file to the v4 syntax | NA mjml [input] -o [output] | Writes the output to [output] | NA mjml [input] -s | Writes the output to stdout | NA mjml -w [input] | Watches the changes made to [input] (file or folder) | NA mjml [input] --config.beautify | Beautifies the output (true or false) | true mjml [input] --config.minify | Minifies the output (true or false) | false Inside Node.js ```javascript import mjml2html from mjml / Compile an mjml string / const htmlOutput = mjml2html(<mjml> <mj-body> <mj-section> <mj-column> <mj-text> Hello World! </mj-text> </mj-column> </mj-section> </mj-body> </mjml>, options) / Print the responsive HTML generated and MJML errors if any / console.log(htmlOutput) ``` You can pass optional options as an object to the mjml2html function: option | unit | description | default value -------------|--------|--------------|--------------- fonts | object | Default fonts imported in the HTML rendered by HTML | See in index.js keepComments | boolean | Option to keep comments in the HTML output | true beautify | boolean | Option to beautify the HTML output | false minify | boolean | Option to minify the HTML output | false validationLevel | string | Available values for the validator: strict, soft, skip | soft filePath | string | Path of file, used for relative paths in mj-includes | . API A free-to-use MJML API is available to make it easy to integrate MJML in your application. Head over here to learn more about the API. MJML Slack MJML wouldnt be as cool without its amazing community. Head over the Community Slack to meet fellow MJMLers. Contributors Maxime Nicolas Cedric Loeck Robin Guillaume Meriadec Arnaud HTeuMeuLeu Emmanuel Payet Matthieu Rogier