Most popular mocking framework for Java Current version is 2.x Still on Mockito 1.x? See whats new in Mockito 2! Mockito continuously delivers improvements using Shipkit library (http://shipkit.org). See the latest release notes and latest documentation. Docs in javadoc.io are available 24h after release. Read also about semantic versioning in Mockito. Older 1.x releases are available in Central Repository , Bintray and javadoc.io (documentation). More information All you want to know about Mockito is hosted at The Mockito Site which is Open Source and likes pull requests, too. Want to contribute? Take a look at the Contributing Guide. Enjoy Mockito! Need help? Search / Ask question on stackoverflow Go to the mockito mailing-list (moderated) Open a ticket in GitHub issue tracker How to develop Mockito? To build locally: ./gradlew build To develop in IntelliJ IDEA you can use built-in Gradle import wizard in IDEA. Alternatively generate the importable IDEA metadata files using: ./gradlew idea Then, open the generated *.ipr file in IDEA. How to release new version? Mockito implements Continuous Delivery model. Every change on main branch (for example merging a pull request) triggers a release build on Travis CI. The build publishes new version if specific criteria are met: all tests green, no ci skip release used in commit message, see the build log for more information. Every new version is published to "mockito/maven" Bintray repository. New versions that Mockito team deems "notable" are additionally published to Maven Central and JCenter. We used to publish every version to Maven Central but we changed this strategy based on feedback from the community (#911). Q: Whats new in Mockito release model? A: In Q2 2017 we implemented Mockito Continuous Delivery Pipeline 2.0. Not every every version is published to Maven Central. Q: How to publish to Maven Central? A: Include "[ci maven-central-release]" in the merge commit when merging the PR. Hint: To signify a new feature consider updating version to next minor/major, like: "2.8.0", "2.9.0", "3.0.0". Q: How to promote already released version to a notable version? A: It isnt automated at the moment. Whats the use case?