Sidekiq Simple, efficient background processing for Ruby. Sidekiq uses threads to handle many jobs at the same time in the same process. It does not require Rails but will integrate tightly with Rails to make background processing dead simple. Sidekiq is compatible with Resque. It uses the exact same message format as Resque so it can integrate into an existing Resque processing farm. You can have Sidekiq and Resque run side-by-side at the same time and use the Resque client to enqueue jobs in Redis to be processed by Sidekiq. Performance Version | Latency | Garbage created for 10,000 jobs | Time to process 100,000 jobs | Throughput -----------------|------|---------|---------|------------------------ Sidekiq 4.0.0 | 10ms | 151 MB | 22 sec | 4500 jobs/sec Sidekiq 3.5.1 | 22ms | 1257 MB | 125 sec | 800 jobs/sec Resque 1.25.2 | - | - | 420 sec | 240 jobs/sec DelayedJob 4.1.1 | - | - | 465 sec | 215 jobs/sec This benchmark can be found in bin/sidekiqload. Requirements Sidekiq supports CRuby 2.2.2+ and JRuby 9k. All Rails releases >= 4.0 are officially supported. Redis 2.8 or greater is required. 3.0.3+ is recommended for large installations with thousands of worker threads. Installation gem install sidekiq Getting Started See the Getting Started wiki page and follow the simple setup process. You can watch this Youtube playlist to learn all about Sidekiq and see its features in action. Heres the Web UI: Want to Upgrade? I also sell Sidekiq Pro and Sidekiq Enterprise, extensions to Sidekiq which provide more features, a commercial-friendly license and allow you to support high quality open source development all at the same time. Please see the Sidekiq homepage for more detail. Subscribe to the quarterly newsletter to stay informed about the latest features and changes to Sidekiq and its bigger siblings. Problems? Please do not directly email any Sidekiq committers with questions or problems. A community is best served when discussions are held in public. If you have a problem, please review the FAQ and Troubleshooting wiki pages. Searching the issues for your problem is also a good idea. Sidekiq Pro and Sidekiq Enterprise customers get private email support. You can purchase at http://sidekiq.org; email support@contribsys.com for help. Useful resources: Product documentation is in the wiki. Release announcements are made to the @sidekiq Twitter account. The Sidekiq tag on Stack Overflow has lots of useful Q & A. No support via Twitter Every Friday morning is Sidekiq happy hour: I video chat and answer questions. See the Sidekiq support page for details. Thanks Sidekiq stays fast by using the JProfiler java profiler to find and fix performance problems on JRuby. Unfortunately MRI does not have good multithreaded profiling tools. License Please see LICENSE for licensing details. Author Mike Perham, @mperham / @sidekiq, http://www.mikeperham.com / http://www.contribsys.com