Storm is a distributed realtime computation system. Similar to how Hadoop provides a set of general primitives for doing batch processing, Storm provides a set of general primitives for doing realtime computation. Storm is simple, can be used with any programming language, is used by many companies, and is a lot of fun to use! The Rationale page on the wiki explains what Storm is and why it was built. This presentation is also a good introduction to the project. Storm has a website at storm-project.net. Follow @stormprocessor on Twitter for updates on the project. Documentation Documentation and tutorials can be found on the Storm wiki. Getting help NOTE: The google groups account storm-user@googlegroups.com is now officially deprecated in favor of the Apache-hosted user/dev mailing lists. Storm Users Storm users should send messages and subscribe to user@storm.incubator.apache.org. You can subscribe to this list by sending an email to user-subscribe@storm.incubator.apache.org. Likewise, you can cancel a subscription by sending an email to user-unsubscribe@storm.incubator.apache.org. You can view the archives of the mailing list here. Storm Developers Storm developers should send messages and subscribe to dev@storm.incubator.apache.org. You can subscribe to this list by sending an email to dev-subscribe@storm.incubator.apache.org. Likewise, you can cancel a subscription by sending an email to dev-unsubscribe@storm.incubator.apache.org. You can view the archives of the mailing list here. Which list should I send/subscribe to? If you are using a pre-built binary distribution of Storm, then chances are you should send questions, comments, storm-related announcements, etc. to user@storm.apache.incubator.org. If you are building storm from source, developing new features, or otherwise hacking storm source code, then dev@storm.incubator.apache.org is more appropriate. What will happen with storm-user@googlegroups.com? All existing messages will remain archived there, and can be accessed/searched here. New messages sent to storm-user@googlegroups.com will either be rejected/bounced or replied to with a message to direct the email to the appropriate Apache-hosted group. IRC You can also come to the #storm-user room on freenode. You can usually find a Storm developer there to help you out. License Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more contributor license agreements. See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership. The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. Project lead Nathan Marz (@nathanmarz) Committers James Xu (@xumingming) Jason Jackson (@jason_j) Andy Feng (@anfeng) Flip Kromer (@mrflip) David Lao (@davidlao2k) P. Taylor Goetz (@ptgoetz) Contributors Christopher Bertels (@bakkdoor) Michael Montano (@michaelmontano) Dennis Zhuang (@killme2008) Trevor Smith (@trevorsummerssmith) Ben Hughes (@schleyfox) Alexey Kachayev (@kachayev) Haitao Yao (@haitaoyao) Dan Dillinger (@ddillinger) Kang Xiao (@xiaokang) Gabriel Grant (@gabrielgrant) Travis Wellman (@travisfw) Kasper Madsen (@KasperMadsen) Michael Cetrulo (@git2samus) Thomas Jack (@tomo) Nicolas Yzet (@nicoo) Fabian Neumann (@hellp) Soren Macbeth (@sorenmacbeth) Ashley Brown (@ashleywbrown) Guanpeng Xu (@herberteuler) Vinod Chandru (@vinodc) Martin Kleppmann (@ept) Evan Chan (@velvia) Sjoerd Mulder (@sjoerdmulder) Yuta Okamoto (@okapies) Barry Hart (@barrywhart) Sergey Lukjanov (@Frostman) Ross Feinstein (@rnfein) Junichiro Takagi (@tjun) Bryan Peterson (@Lazyshot) Sam Ritchie (@sritchie) Stuart Anderson (@emblem) Robert Evans (@revans2) Lorcan Coyle (@lorcan) Derek Dagit (@d2r) Andrew Olson (@noslowerdna) Gavin Li (@lyogavin) Tudor Scurtu (@tscurtu) Homer Strong (@strongh) Sean Melody (@srmelody) Jake Donham (@jaked) Ankit Toshniwal (@ankitoshniwal) Acknowledgements YourKit is kindly supporting open source projects with its full-featured Java Profiler. YourKit, LLC is the creator of innovative and intelligent tools for profiling Java and .NET applications. Take a look at YourKits leading software products: YourKit Java Profiler and YourKit .NET Profiler.