Wiki | Documentation | Twitter | Community | Gitter Chat Neovim is a project that seeks to aggressively refactor Vim in order to: Simplify maintenance and encourage contributions Split the work between multiple developers Enable advanced UIs without modifications to the core Maximize extensibility See the wiki and Roadmap for more information. Install from source make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo sudo make install To install to a non-default location, set CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX: make CMAKE_EXTRA_FLAGS="-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/full/path/" make install To list all targets: cmake --build build --target help To skip "bundled" dependencies define USE_BUNDLED_DEPS=NO (CMake option: USE_BUNDLED=NO). See the wiki for details. Install from package Pre-built packages for Windows, macOS, and Linux are found at the Releases page. Managed packages are in Homebrew, Debian, Ubuntu, Fedora, Arch Linux, Gentoo, and more! Project layout ├─ ci/ build automation ├─ cmake/ build scripts ├─ runtime/ user plugins/docs ├─ src/ application source code (see src/nvim/README.md) │ ├─ api/ API subsystem │ ├─ eval/ VimL subsystem │ ├─ event/ event-loop subsystem │ ├─ generators/ code generation (pre-compilation) │ ├─ lib/ generic data structures │ ├─ lua/ lua subsystem │ ├─ msgpack_rpc/ RPC subsystem │ ├─ os/ low-level platform code │ └─ tui/ built-in UI ├─ third-party/ cmake subproject to build dependencies └─ test/ tests (see test/README.md) Features Modern GUIs API access from any language including clojure, lisp, go, haskell, lua, javascript, perl, python, ruby, rust. Embedded, scriptable terminal emulator Asynchronous job control Shared data (shada) among multiple editor instances XDG base directories support Compatible with most Vim plugins, including Ruby and Python plugins. See :help nvim-features for the full list! License Neovim is licensed under the terms of the Apache 2.0 license, except for parts that were contributed under the Vim license. Contributions committed before b17d96 remain under the Vim license. Contributions committed after b17d96 are licensed under Apache 2.0 unless those contributions were copied from Vim (identified in the commit logs by the vim-patch token). See LICENSE for details. Vim is Charityware. You can use and copy it as much as you like, but you are encouraged to make a donation for needy children in Uganda. Please see the kcc section of the vim docs or visit the ICCF web site, available at these URLs: http://iccf-holland.org/ http://www.vim.org/iccf/ http://www.iccf.nl/ You can also sponsor the development of Vim. Vim sponsors can vote for features. The money goes to Uganda anyway. vim: set tw=80: