A progressive Node.js framework for building efficient and scalable server-side applications, heavily inspired by Angular. <a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#backer">klzzwxh:0000</a> <a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor">klzzwxh:0002</a> Description Nest is a framework for building efficient, scalable Node.js server-side applications. It uses modern JavaScript, is built with TypeScript (preserves compatibility with pure JavaScript) and combines elements of OOP (Object Oriented Programming), FP (Functional Programming), and FRP (Functional Reactive Programming). Under the hood, Nest makes use of Express, but also, provides compatibility with a wide range of other libraries, like e.g. Fastify, allowing for easy use of the myriad third-party plugins which are available. Philosophy In recent years, thanks to Node.js, JavaScript has become the “lingua franca” of the web for both front and backend applications, giving rise to awesome projects like Angular, React and Vue which improve developer productivity and enable the construction of fast, testable, extensible frontend applications. However, on the server-side, while there are a lot of superb libraries, helpers and tools for Node, none of them effectively solve the main problem - the architecture. Nest aims to provide an application architecture out of the box which allows for effortless creation of highly testable, scalable, loosely coupled and easily maintainable applications. Getting started To check out the guide, visit docs.nestjs.com. :books: 要查看中文 指南, 请访问 docs.nestjs.cn. :books: Support Nest is an MIT-licensed open source project. It can grow thanks to the sponsors and support by the amazing backers. If youd like to join them, please read more here. Principal Sponsor Silver Sponsors Sponsors Backers Stay in touch Author - Kamil Myśliwiec Website - https://nestjs.com Twitter - @nestframework License Nest is MIT licensed.