Falcor 2.0 2.0 is the current stable Falcor release. 0.x and 1.x users are welcome to upgrade. Breaking changes between 1.x and 2.0 can be reviewed here. Breaking changes between 0.x and 1.x can be reviewed here. Roadmap Issues were tracking as part of our roadmap are tagged with the roadmap label. They are split into enhancement, stability, performance, tooling, infrastructure and documentation categories, with near, medium and longer term labels to convey a broader sense of the order in which we plan to approach them. Getting Started You can check out a working example server for a Netflix-like application here right now. Alternately you can go through this barebones tutorial in which we use the Falcor Router to create a Virtual JSON resource. In this tutorial we will use Falcors express middleware to serve the Virtual JSON resource on an application server at the URL /model.json. We will also host a static web page on the same server which retrieves data from the Virtual JSON resource. Creating a Virtual JSON Resource In this example we will use the falcor Router to build a Virtual JSON resource on an app server and host it at /model.json. The JSON resource will contain the following contents: ~~~js { "greeting": "Hello World" } ~~~ Normally Routers retrieve the data for their Virtual JSON resource from backend datastores or other web services on-demand. However in this simple tutorial the Router will simply return static data for a single key. First we create a folder for our application server. ~~~bash mkdir falcor-app-server cd falcor-app-server npm init ~~~ Now we install the falcor Router. ~~~bash npm install falcor-router --save ~~~ Then install express and falcor-express. Support for restify is also available, as is support for hapi via a third-party implementation. ~~~bash npm install express --save npm install falcor-express --save ~~~ Now we create an index.js file with the following contents: ~~~js // index.js var falcorExpress = require(falcor-express); var Router = require(falcor-router); var express = require(express); var app = express(); app.use(/model.json, falcorExpress.dataSourceRoute(function (req, res) { // create a Virtual JSON resource with single key ("greeting") return new Router([ { // match a request for the key "greeting" route: "greeting", // respond with a PathValue with the value of "Hello World." get: function() { return {path:["greeting"], value: "Hello World"}; } } ]); })); // serve static files from current directory app.use(express.static(__dirname + /)); var server = app.listen(3000); ~~~ Now we run the server, which will listen on port 3000 for requests for /model.json. ~~~sh node index.js ~~~ Retrieving Data from the Virtual JSON resource Now that weve built a simple virtual JSON document with a single read-only key greeting, we will create a test web page and retrieve this key from the server. Create an index.html file with the following contents: ~~~html index.html Do _not_ rely on this URL in production. Use only during development. For production use. <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/falcor/{VERSION}/falcor.browser.min.js"></script>