Netty Project Netty is an asynchronous event-driven network application framework for rapid development of maintainable high performance protocol servers & clients. Links Web Site Downloads Documentation @netty_project How to build For the detailed information about building and developing Netty, please visit the developer guide. This page only gives very basic information. You require the following to build Netty: Latest stable Oracle JDK 7 Latest stable Apache Maven If you are on Linux, you need additional development packages installed on your system, because youll build the native transport. Note that this is build-time requirement. JDK 5 (for 3.x) or 6 (for 4.0+) is enough to run your Netty-based application. Branches to look Development of all versions takes place in each branch whose name is identical to <majorVersion>.<minorVersion>. For example, the development of 3.9 and 4.0 resides in the branch 3.9 and the branch 4.0 respectively. Usage with JDK 9 Netty can be used in modular JDK9 applications as a collection of automatic modules. The module names follow the reverse-DNS style, and are derived from subproject names rather than root packages due to historical reasons. They are listed below: io.netty.all io.netty.buffer io.netty.codec io.netty.codec.dns io.netty.codec.haproxy io.netty.codec.http io.netty.codec.http2 io.netty.codec.memcache io.netty.codec.mqtt io.netty.codec.redis io.netty.codec.smtp io.netty.codec.socks io.netty.codec.stomp io.netty.codec.xml io.netty.common io.netty.handler io.netty.handler.proxy io.netty.resolver io.netty.resolver.dns io.netty.transport io.netty.transport.epoll (native omitted - reserved keyword in Java) io.netty.transport.kqueue (native omitted - reserved keyword in Java) io.netty.transport.unix.common (native omitted - reserved keyword in Java) io.netty.transport.rxtx io.netty.transport.sctp io.netty.transport.udt Automatic modules do not provide any means to declare dependencies, so you need to list each used module separately in your module-info file.