GFM Markdown WYSIWYG Editor - Productive and Extensible 🚩 Table of Contents Browser Support Standard and Extensible CommonMark + GFM Specifications Powerful Extensions Features Productive Markdown mode Easy WYSIWYG mode And more Install using npm using bower Via Contents Delivery Network (CDN) Download Usage Editor HTML javascript options Viewer Docs Examples Contributing TOAST UI Family Used By License 🌏 Browser Support | Chrome | Internet Explorer | Edge | Safari | Firefox | | :---------: | :---------: | :---------: | :---------: | :---------: | | Yes | 10+ | Yes | Yes | Yes | Standard and Extensible CommonMark + GFM Specifications Today CommonMark is the de-facto Markdown standard. GFM (GitHub Flavored Markdown) is another popular specification based on CommonMark - maintained by GitHub, which is the Markdown mostly used. TOAST UI Editor respects both CommonMark and GFM specifications. Write documents with ease using productive tools provided by TOAST UI Editor and you can easily open the produced document wherever the specifications are supported. Powerful Extensions CommonMark and GFM are great, but we often need more abstraction. The TOAST UI Editor comes with powerful Extensions in compliance with the Markdown syntax. You also get the flexibility to develop your own extensions using simple APIs. Here are some of the extensions you can start with: Color picker: ColorPicker provides an easy way to color text with a GUI tool box Chart code block: A Code block marked as a chart will render charts UML code block: A Code block marked as an uml will render UML diagrams Table merge: You can merge columns and rows in tables To learn more about Extensions check the Using Extension 🎨 Features TOAST UI Editor provides Markdown mode and WYSIWYG mode. Depending on the type of use you want like production of Markdown or maybe to just edit the Markdown. The TOAST UI Editor can be helpful for both the usage. It offers Markdown mode and WYSIWYG mode, which can be switched any point in time. Productive Markdown mode Live Preview: Edit Markdown while keeping an eye on the rendered HTML. Your edits will be applied immediately Scrolling Sync: Synchronous scrolling between Markdown and Preview. You dont need to scroll through each one separately Auto indent: The cursor will always be where you want it to be Syntax highlight: You can check broken Markdown syntax immediately Easy WYSIWYG mode Copy and paste: Paste anything from browser, screenshot, excel, powerpoint, etc. Codeblock editor: Highlight 170+ languages with full size code editor * Table: Hate the Markdown table? You can do everything with a mouse And more i18n: English, Dutch, Korean, Japanese, Chinese, Spanish, German, Russian, French, Ukrainian, Turkish + language you extend. Viewer: Renders Markdown content with extensions 💾 Install using npm sh npm install --save tui-editor using bower sh bower install --save tui-editor Via Contents Delivery Network (CDN) TOAST UI products are available over the CDN powered by TOAST Cloud. You can use the CDN as below. html <script src="https://uicdn.toast.com/tui-editor/latest/tui-editor-Editor.js"></script> If you want to use a specific version, use the tag name instead of latest in the urls path. The CDN directory has the following structure. tui-editor/ ├─ latest/ │ ├─ tui-editor-Editor.js │ ├─ tui-editor-Editor.min.js │ └─ ... ├─ v1.1.0/ │ ├─ ... download Download bundle files from dist directory Download all sources for each version from release 🔨 Usage The code provided underneath is for npm + bundler. If you are using bower please see Getting started with bower. Editor HTML Place a <div></div> where you want TOAST UI Editor rendered. html <body> ... <div id="editSection"></div> ... </body> javascript Add dependencies & initialize Editor class with given element to make an Editor. ```javascript // deps for editor require(codemirror/lib/codemirror.css) // codemirror require(tui-editor/dist/tui-editor.css); // editor ui require(tui-editor/dist/tui-editor-contents.css); // editor content require(highlight.js/styles/github.css); // code block highlight var Editor = require(tui-editor); ... var editor = new Editor({ el: document.querySelector(#editSection), initialEditType: markdown, previewStyle: vertical, height: 300px }); ``` or you can use jquery plugin. javascript $(#editSection).tuiEditor({ initialEditType: markdown, previewStyle: vertical, height: 300px }); options height: Height in string or auto ex) 300px | auto initialValue: Initial value. Set Markdown string initialEditType: Initial type to show markdown | wysiwyg previewType: Preview style of Markdown mode tab | vertical usageStatistics: Let us know the hostname. We want to learn from you how you are using the editor. You are free to disable it. true | false Find out more options here Viewer TOAST UI Editor provides a Viewer in case you want to show Markdown content without loading the editor. The Viewer is much lighter than the editor. ```javascript // deps for viewer. require(tui-editor/dist/tui-editor-contents.css); // editor content require(highlight.js/styles/github.css); // code block highlight var Viewer = require(tui-editor/dist/tui-editor-Viewer); ... var editor = new Viewer({ el: document.querySelector(#viewerSection), height: 500px, initialValue: # content to be rendered }); ... ``` Be careful not to load both the editor and the viewer at the same time because the editor already contains the viewer function, you can initialize editor Editor.factory() and set the viewer option to value true in order to make the editor a viewer. You can also call getHTML() to render the HTML. javascript var Editor = require(tui-editor); ... var editor = Editor.factory({ el: document.querySelector(#viewerSection), viewer: true, height: 500px, initialValue: # content to be rendered }); ... TOAST UI Editor respects CommonMark and GFM. So any Markdown renderer including markdownit can handle the content made using TOAST UI Editor. You can also use any of these renderer in place of TOAST UI Editor Viewer. 📙 Docs Getting started Getting started with bower Writing your own extension APIs 🐾 Examples editor basic viewer basic jQuery plugin uml extension chart extension writing extension all extensions 💬 Contributing Code of Conduct Contributing guideline Commit convention 🍞 TOAST UI Family TOAST UI Grid TOAST UI Chart TOAST UI Calendar TOAST UI Components 🚀 Used By TOAST Dooray! - Collaboration Service (Project, Messenger, Mail) 📜 License This software is licensed under the MIT © NHN Ent.