[ 🚧 Work in progress 👷‍♀️⛏👷🔧️👷🔧 🚧 ] Plaid 2.0 Rewriting Plaid using Android Architecture Components, in Kotlin. 🛑 During the initial development stage, were not accepting external PRs. 🛑 👍 Comments and new issues created are welcomed. Background Plaid was written with one big goal: showcase material design in Android in a real application. While Plaid successfully achieved its goal, from an architecture point of view, it lacks all features that would make it a modular, scalable, testable and maintainable app: with UI logic in Android classes, no tests and only one module. Plaid represents a great real world app example: it provides a fairly complex set of functionalities, it has technical debt, it has features that have to be dealt with as APIs are being removed. All of these problems are encountered by many projects in the Android community and therefore, make Plaid a suitable showcase for all the advantages that architecture components bring. Goals Migrate Plaid to Architecture Components. The refactoring will follow the architecture described in Guide to App Architecture. Convert to Kotlin, while migrating to Architecture Components. Modularize the app using dynamic feature modules. Showcase the extensibility of the architecture by adding an extra data source, once the migration is finished. Non-Goals Changes to the styles, themes, icons, animations, transitions or any other UI elements that were the initial focus of Plaid, are outside the scope of this refactoring. Android Studio IDE setup Plaid uses ktlint to enforce Kotlin coding styles. Heres how to configure it for use with Android Studio (instructions adapted from the ktlint README): Close Android Studio if its open Download ktlint: curl -sSLO https://github.com/shyiko/ktlint/releases/download/0.24.0/ktlint && chmod a+x ktlint Inside the project root directory run: ktlint --apply-to-idea-project --android Remove ktlint if desired: rm ktlint Start Android Studio Plaid 1.0 Design news and inspiration. Plaid is a showcase of material design that we hope you will keep installed. It pulls in news & inspiration from Designer News, Dribbble & Product Hunt. It demonstrates the use of material principles to create tactile, bold, understandable UIs. Install on Google Play (Beta Testing) Screenshots Non-Goals Plaid is a UI sample and seeks to demonstrate how to implement material design. To make this as clear as possible it explicitly does not attempt to: Provide opinionated architecture/testing advice; it utilizes vanilla Android components. For advice on this, Id recommend Blueprints. Support pre-Lollipop devices. Doing so is entirely possible, but complicates things. For advice on doing this, see this fork. License ``` Copyright 2015 Google, Inc. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more contributor license agreements. See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership. The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. ```