Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chromes V8 JavaScript engine. For more information on using Node.js, see the Node.js Website. The Node.js project is supported by the Node.js Foundation. Contributions, policies, and releases are managed under an open governance model. This project is bound by a Code of Conduct. Table of Contents Support Release Types Download Current and LTS Releases Nightly Releases API Documentation Verifying Binaries Building Node.js Security Current Project Team Members TSC (Technical Steering Committee) Collaborators Release Team Contributing to Node.js Support Node.js contributors have limited availability to address general support questions. Please make sure you are using a currently-supported version of Node.js. When looking for support, please first search for your question in these venues: Node.js Website Node.js Help Open or closed issues in the Node.js GitHub organization If you didnt find an answer in one of the official resources above, you can search these unofficial resources: Questions tagged node.js on StackOverflow #node.js channel on chat.freenode.net. See http://nodeirc.info/ for more information. Node.js Discord Community Node.js Slack Community: Visit nodeslackers.com to register. GitHub issues are meant for tracking enhancements and bugs, not general support. Remember, libre != gratis; the open source license grants you the freedom to use and modify, but not commitments of other peoples time. Please be respectful, and set your expectations accordingly. Release Types The Node.js project maintains multiple types of releases: Current: Released from active development branches of this repository, versioned by SemVer and signed by a member of the Release Team. Code for Current releases is organized in this repository by major version number. For example: v4.x. The major version number of Current releases will increment every 6 months allowing for breaking changes to be introduced. This happens in April and October every year. Current release lines beginning in October each year have a maximum support life of 8 months. Current release lines beginning in April each year will convert to LTS (see below) after 6 months and receive further support for 30 months. LTS: Releases that receive Long-term Support, with a focus on stability and security. Every second Current release line (major version) will become an LTS line and receive 18 months of Active LTS support and a further 12 months of Maintenance. LTS release lines are given alphabetically ordered codenames, beginning with v4 Argon. LTS releases are less frequent and will attempt to maintain consistent major and minor version numbers, only incrementing patch version numbers. There are no breaking changes or feature additions, except in some special circumstances. Nightly: Versions of code in this repository on the current Current branch, automatically built every 24-hours where changes exist. Use with caution. More information can be found in the LTS README. Download Binaries, installers, and source tarballs are available at https://nodejs.org. Current and LTS Releases Current and LTS releases are available at https://nodejs.org/download/release/, listed under their version strings. The latest directory is an alias for the latest Current release. The latest LTS release from an LTS line is available in the form: latest-codename. For example: https://nodejs.org/download/release/latest-argon. Nightly Releases Nightly builds are available at https://nodejs.org/download/nightly/, listed under their version string which includes their date (in UTC time) and the commit SHA at the HEAD of the release. API Documentation API documentation is available in each release and nightly directory under docs. https://nodejs.org/api/ points to the API documentation of the latest stable version. Verifying Binaries Current, LTS, and Nightly download directories all contain a SHASUMS256.txt file that lists the SHA checksums for each file available for download. The SHASUMS256.txt can be downloaded using curl. console $ curl -O https://nodejs.org/dist/vx.y.z/SHASUMS256.txt To check that a downloaded file matches the checksum, run it through sha256sum with a command such as: console $ grep node-vx.y.z.tar.gz SHASUMS256.txt | sha256sum -c - Current and LTS releases (but not Nightlies) also have the GPG detached signature of SHASUMS256.txt available as SHASUMS256.txt.sig. You can use gpg to verify that SHASUMS256.txt has not been tampered with. To verify SHASUMS256.txt has not been altered, you will first need to import all of the GPG keys of individuals authorized to create releases. They are listed at the bottom of this README under Release Team. Use a command such as this to import the keys: console $ gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys DD8F2338BAE7501E3DD5AC78C273792F7D83545D See the bottom of this README for a full script to import active release keys. Next, download the SHASUMS256.txt.sig for the release: console $ curl -O https://nodejs.org/dist/vx.y.z/SHASUMS256.txt.sig After downloading the appropriate SHASUMS256.txt and SHASUMS256.txt.sig files, you can then use gpg --verify SHASUMS256.txt.sig SHASUMS256.txt to verify that the file has been signed by an authorized member of the Node.js team. Once verified, use the SHASUMS256.txt file to get the checksum for the binary verification command above. Building Node.js See BUILDING.md for instructions on how to build Node.js from source. The document also contains a list of officially supported platforms. Security Security flaws in Node.js should be reported by emailing security@nodejs.org. Please do not disclose security bugs publicly until they have been handled by the security team. Your email will be acknowledged within 24 hours, and you will receive a more detailed response to your email within 48 hours indicating the next steps in handling your report. There are no hard and fast rules to determine if a bug is worth reporting as a security issue. The general rule is an issue worth reporting should allow an attacker to compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the Node.js application or its system for which the attacker does not already have the capability. To illustrate the point, here are some examples of past issues and what the Security Response Team thinks of them. When in doubt, however, please do send us a report nonetheless. Public disclosure preferred #14519: Internal domain function can be used to cause segfaults. Causing program termination using either the public JavaScript APIs or the private bindings layer APIs requires the ability to execute arbitrary JavaScript code, which is already the highest level of privilege possible. #12141: buffer: zero fill Buffer(num) by default. The buffer constructor behavior was documented, but found to be prone to mis-use. It has since been changed, but despite much debate, was not considered misuse prone enough to justify fixing in older release lines and breaking our API stability contract. Private disclosure preferred CVE-2016-7099: Fix invalid wildcard certificate validation check. This is a high severity defect that would allow a malicious TLS server to serve an invalid wildcard certificate for its hostname and be improperly validated by a Node.js client. #5507: Fix a defect that makes the CacheBleed Attack possible. Many, though not all, OpenSSL vulnerabilities in the TLS/SSL protocols also affect Node.js. CVE-2016-2216: Fix defects in HTTP header parsing for requests and responses that can allow response splitting. While the impact of this vulnerability is application and network dependent, it is remotely exploitable in the HTTP protocol. When in doubt, please do send us a report. Current Project Team Members The Node.js project team comprises a group of core collaborators and a sub-group that forms the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) which governs the project. For more information about the governance of the Node.js project, see GOVERNANCE.md. TSC (Technical Steering Committee) addaleax - Anna Henningsen <anna@addaleax.net> (she/her) ChALkeR - Сковорода Никита Андреевич <chalkerx@gmail.com> (he/him) cjihrig - Colin Ihrig <cjihrig@gmail.com> danbev - Daniel Bevenius <daniel.bevenius@gmail.com> fhinkel - Franziska Hinkelmann <franziska.hinkelmann@gmail.com> (she/her) Fishrock123 - Jeremiah Senkpiel <fishrock123@rocketmail.com> gibfahn - Gibson Fahnestock <gibfahn@gmail.com> (he/him) jasnell - James M Snell <jasnell@gmail.com> (he/him) joyeecheung - Joyee Cheung <joyeec9h3@gmail.com> (she/her) mcollina - Matteo Collina <matteo.collina@gmail.com> (he/him) mhdawson - Michael Dawson <michael_dawson@ca.ibm.com> (he/him) MylesBorins - Myles Borins <myles.borins@gmail.com> (he/him) ofrobots - Ali Ijaz Sheikh <ofrobots@google.com> (he/him) rvagg - Rod Vagg <rod@vagg.org> targos - Michaël Zasso <targos@protonmail.com> (he/him) thefourtheye - Sakthipriyan Vairamani <thechargingvolcano@gmail.com> (he/him) TimothyGu - Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu <timothygu99@gmail.com> (he/him) Trott - Rich Trott <rtrott@gmail.com> (he/him) TSC Emeriti bnoordhuis - Ben Noordhuis <info@bnoordhuis.nl> chrisdickinson - Chris Dickinson <christopher.s.dickinson@gmail.com> evanlucas - Evan Lucas <evanlucas@me.com> (he/him) indutny - Fedor Indutny <fedor.indutny@gmail.com> isaacs - Isaac Z. Schlueter <i@izs.me> joshgav - Josh Gavant <josh.gavant@outlook.com> mscdex - Brian White <mscdex@mscdex.net> nebrius - Bryan Hughes <bryan@nebri.us> orangemocha - Alexis Campailla <orangemocha@nodejs.org> piscisaureus - Bert Belder <bertbelder@gmail.com> shigeki - Shigeki Ohtsu <ohtsu@ohtsu.org> (he/him) trevnorris - Trevor Norris <trev.norris@gmail.com> Collaborators addaleax - Anna Henningsen <anna@addaleax.net> (she/her) ak239 - Aleksei Koziatinskii <ak239spb@gmail.com> andrasq - Andras <andras@kinvey.com> AndreasMadsen - Andreas Madsen <amwebdk@gmail.com> (he/him) AnnaMag - Anna M. Kedzierska <anna.m.kedzierska@gmail.com> apapirovski - Anatoli Papirovski <apapirovski@mac.com> (he/him) aqrln - Alexey Orlenko <eaglexrlnk@gmail.com> (he/him) bcoe - Ben Coe <bencoe@gmail.com> (he/him) bengl - Bryan English <bryan@bryanenglish.com> (he/him) benjamingr - Benjamin Gruenbaum <benjamingr@gmail.com> BethGriggs - Beth Griggs <Bethany.Griggs@uk.ibm.com> (she/her) bmeck - Bradley Farias <bradley.meck@gmail.com> bmeurer - Benedikt Meurer <benedikt.meurer@gmail.com> bnoordhuis - Ben Noordhuis <info@bnoordhuis.nl> brendanashworth - Brendan Ashworth <brendan.ashworth@me.com> BridgeAR - Ruben Bridgewater <ruben@bridgewater.de> bzoz - Bartosz Sosnowski <bartosz@janeasystems.com> calvinmetcalf - Calvin Metcalf <calvin.metcalf@gmail.com> ChALkeR - Сковорода Никита Андреевич <chalkerx@gmail.com> (he/him) chrisdickinson - Chris Dickinson <christopher.s.dickinson@gmail.com> cjihrig - Colin Ihrig <cjihrig@gmail.com> claudiorodriguez - Claudio Rodriguez <cjrodr@yahoo.com> codebytere - Shelley Vohr <codebytere@gmail.com> (she/her) danbev - Daniel Bevenius <daniel.bevenius@gmail.com> DavidCai1993 - David Cai <davidcai1993@yahoo.com> (he/him) davisjam - Jamie Davis <davisjam@vt.edu> (he/him) devsnek - Gus Caplan <me@gus.host> (he/him) edsadr - Adrian Estrada <edsadr@gmail.com> (he/him) eljefedelrodeodeljefe - Robert Jefe Lindstaedt <robert.lindstaedt@gmail.com> estliberitas - Alexander Makarenko <estliberitas@gmail.com> eugeneo - Eugene Ostroukhov <eostroukhov@google.com> evanlucas - Evan Lucas <evanlucas@me.com> (he/him) fhinkel - Franziska Hinkelmann <franziska.hinkelmann@gmail.com> (she/her) firedfox - Daniel Wang <wangyang0123@gmail.com> Fishrock123 - Jeremiah Senkpiel <fishrock123@rocketmail.com> gabrielschulhof - Gabriel Schulhof <gabriel.schulhof@intel.com> geek - Wyatt Preul <wpreul@gmail.com> gibfahn - Gibson Fahnestock <gibfahn@gmail.com> (he/him) gireeshpunathil - Gireesh Punathil <gpunathi@in.ibm.com> (he/him) guybedford - Guy Bedford <guybedford@gmail.com> (he/him) hashseed - Yang Guo <yangguo@chromium.org> (he/him) hiroppy - Yuta Hiroto <hello@hiroppy.me> (he/him) iarna - Rebecca Turner <me@re-becca.org> imyller - Ilkka Myller <ilkka.myller@nodefield.com> indutny - Fedor Indutny <fedor.indutny@gmail.com> italoacasas - Italo A. Casas <me@italoacasas.com> (he/him) JacksonTian - Jackson Tian <shyvo1987@gmail.com> jasnell - James M Snell <jasnell@gmail.com> (he/him) jasongin - Jason Ginchereau <jasongin@microsoft.com> jbergstroem - Johan Bergström <bugs@bergstroem.nu> jdalton - John-David Dalton <john.david.dalton@gmail.com> jhamhader - Yuval Brik <yuval@brik.org.il> jkrems - Jan Krems <jan.krems@gmail.com> (he/him) joaocgreis - João Reis <reis@janeasystems.com> joshgav - Josh Gavant <josh.gavant@outlook.com> joyeecheung - Joyee Cheung <joyeec9h3@gmail.com> (she/her) julianduque - Julian Duque <julianduquej@gmail.com> (he/him) JungMinu - Minwoo Jung <minwoo@nodesource.com> (he/him) kfarnung - Kyle Farnung <kfarnung@microsoft.com> (he/him) kunalspathak - Kunal Pathak <kunal.pathak@microsoft.com> lance - Lance Ball <lball@redhat.com> Leko - Shingo Inoue <leko.noor@gmail.com> (he/him) lpinca - Luigi Pinca <luigipinca@gmail.com> (he/him) lucamaraschi - Luca Maraschi <luca.maraschi@gmail.com> (he/him) maclover7 - Jon Moss <me@jonathanmoss.me> (he/him) mafintosh Mathias Buus <mathiasbuus@gmail.com> (he/him) mcollina - Matteo Collina <matteo.collina@gmail.com> (he/him) mhdawson - Michael Dawson <michael_dawson@ca.ibm.com> (he/him) misterdjules - Julien Gilli <jgilli@nodejs.org> mmarchini - Matheus Marchini <matheus@sthima.com> MoonBall - Chen Gang <gangc.cxy@foxmail.com> mscdex - Brian White <mscdex@mscdex.net> MylesBorins - Myles Borins <myles.borins@gmail.com> (he/him) not-an-aardvark - Teddy Katz <teddy.katz@gmail.com> ofrobots - Ali Ijaz Sheikh <ofrobots@google.com> (he/him) orangemocha - Alexis Campailla <orangemocha@nodejs.org> othiym23 - Forrest L Norvell <ogd@aoaioxxysz.net> (he/him) phillipj - Phillip Johnsen <johphi@gmail.com> pmq20 - Minqi Pan <pmq2001@gmail.com> princejwesley - Prince John Wesley <princejohnwesley@gmail.com> Qard - Stephen Belanger <admin@stephenbelanger.com> (he/him) refack - Refael Ackermann <refack@gmail.com> (he/him) richardlau - Richard Lau <riclau@uk.ibm.com> ronkorving - Ron Korving <ron@ronkorving.nl> RReverser - Ingvar Stepanyan <me@rreverser.com> rvagg - Rod Vagg <rod@vagg.org> ryzokuken - Ujjwal Sharma <usharma1998@gmail.com> (he/him) saghul - Saúl Ibarra Corretgé <saghul@gmail.com> sam-github - Sam Roberts <vieuxtech@gmail.com> santigimeno - Santiago Gimeno <santiago.gimeno@gmail.com> sebdeckers - Sebastiaan Deckers <sebdeckers83@gmail.com> seishun - Nikolai Vavilov <vvnicholas@gmail.com> shigeki - Shigeki Ohtsu <ohtsu@ohtsu.org> (he/him) silverwind - Roman Reiss <me@silverwind.io> srl295 - Steven R Loomis <srloomis@us.ibm.com> starkwang - Weijia Wang <starkwang@126.com> stefanmb - Stefan Budeanu <stefan@budeanu.com> targos - Michaël Zasso <targos@protonmail.com> (he/him) thefourtheye - Sakthipriyan Vairamani <thechargingvolcano@gmail.com> (he/him) thekemkid - Glen Keane <glenkeane.94@gmail.com> (he/him) thlorenz - Thorsten Lorenz <thlorenz@gmx.de> TimothyGu - Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu <timothygu99@gmail.com> (he/him) tniessen - Tobias Nießen <tniessen@tnie.de> trevnorris - Trevor Norris <trev.norris@gmail.com> trivikr - Trivikram Kamat <trivikr.dev@gmail.com> Trott - Rich Trott <rtrott@gmail.com> (he/him) vdeturckheim - Vladimir de Turckheim <vlad2t@hotmail.com> (he/him) vkurchatkin - Vladimir Kurchatkin <vladimir.kurchatkin@gmail.com> vsemozhetbyt - Vse Mozhet Byt <vsemozhetbyt@gmail.com> (he/him) watilde - Daijiro Wachi <daijiro.wachi@gmail.com> (he/him) watson - Thomas Watson <w@tson.dk> whitlockjc - Jeremy Whitlock <jwhitlock@apache.org> XadillaX - Khaidi Chu <i@2333.moe> (he/him) yhwang - Yihong Wang <yh.wang@ibm.com> yorkie - Yorkie Liu <yorkiefixer@gmail.com> yosuke-furukawa - Yosuke Furukawa <yosuke.furukawa@gmail.com> Collaborator Emeriti imran-iq - Imran Iqbal <imran@imraniqbal.org> isaacs - Isaac Z. Schlueter <i@izs.me> lxe - Aleksey Smolenchuk <lxe@lxe.co> matthewloring - Matthew Loring <mattloring@google.com> micnic - Nicu Micleușanu <micnic90@gmail.com> (he/him) mikeal - Mikeal Rogers <mikeal.rogers@gmail.com> monsanto - Christopher Monsanto <chris@monsan.to> Olegas - Oleg Elifantiev <oleg@elifantiev.ru> petkaantonov - Petka Antonov <petka_antonov@hotmail.com> piscisaureus - Bert Belder <bertbelder@gmail.com> rlidwka - Alex Kocharin <alex@kocharin.ru> rmg - Ryan Graham <r.m.graham@gmail.com> robertkowalski - Robert Kowalski <rok@kowalski.gd> romankl - Roman Klauke <romaaan.git@gmail.com> tellnes - Christian Tellnes <christian@tellnes.no> tunniclm - Mike Tunnicliffe <m.j.tunnicliffe@gmail.com> Collaborators follow the COLLABORATOR_GUIDE.md in maintaining the Node.js project. Release Team Node.js releases are signed with one of the following GPG keys: Colin Ihrig <cjihrig@gmail.com> 94AE36675C464D64BAFA68DD7434390BDBE9B9C5 Evan Lucas <evanlucas@me.com> B9AE9905FFD7803F25714661B63B535A4C206CA9 Gibson Fahnestock <gibfahn@gmail.com> 77984A986EBC2AA786BC0F66B01FBB92821C587A James M Snell <jasnell@keybase.io> 71DCFD284A79C3B38668286BC97EC7A07EDE3FC1 Jeremiah Senkpiel <fishrock@keybase.io> FD3A5288F042B6850C66B31F09FE44734EB7990E Michaël Zasso <targos@protonmail.com> 8FCCA13FEF1D0C2E91008E09770F7A9A5AE15600 Myles Borins <myles.borins@gmail.com> C4F0DFFF4E8C1A8236409D08E73BC641CC11F4C8 Rod Vagg <rod@vagg.org> DD8F2338BAE7501E3DD5AC78C273792F7D83545D The full set of trusted release keys can be imported by running: shell gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 94AE36675C464D64BAFA68DD7434390BDBE9B9C5 gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys B9AE9905FFD7803F25714661B63B535A4C206CA9 gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 77984A986EBC2AA786BC0F66B01FBB92821C587A gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 71DCFD284A79C3B38668286BC97EC7A07EDE3FC1 gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys FD3A5288F042B6850C66B31F09FE44734EB7990E gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 8FCCA13FEF1D0C2E91008E09770F7A9A5AE15600 gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys C4F0DFFF4E8C1A8236409D08E73BC641CC11F4C8 gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys DD8F2338BAE7501E3DD5AC78C273792F7D83545D See the section above on Verifying Binaries for details on what to do with these keys to verify that a downloaded file is official. Previous releases may also have been signed with one of the following GPG keys: Chris Dickinson <christopher.s.dickinson@gmail.com> 9554F04D7259F04124DE6B476D5A82AC7E37093B Isaac Z. Schlueter <i@izs.me> 93C7E9E91B49E432C2F75674B0A78B0A6C481CF6 Italo A. Casas <me@italoacasas.com> 56730D5401028683275BD23C23EFEFE93C4CFFFE Julien Gilli <jgilli@fastmail.fm> 114F43EE0176B71C7BC219DD50A3051F888C628D Timothy J Fontaine <tjfontaine@gmail.com> 7937DFD2AB06298B2293C3187D33FF9D0246406D Contributing to Node.js Contributing to the project Working Groups Strategic Initiatives