Nodemailer Send e-mails from Node.js – easy as cake! 🍰✉️ See nodemailer.com for documentation and terms. Having an issue? First review the docs Documentation for Nodemailer can be found at nodemailer.com Nodemailer throws a SyntaxError for "..." You are using older Node.js version than v6.0. Upgrade Node.js to get support for the spread operator Im having issues with Gmail Gmail either works well or it does not work at all. It is probably easier to switch to an alternative service instead of fixing issues with Gmail. If Gmail does not work for you then dont use it. I get ETIMEDOUT errors Check your firewall settings. Timeout usually occurs when you try to open a connection to a port that is firewalled either on the server or on your machine I get TLS errors If you are running the code in your own machine, then check your antivirus settings. Antiviruses often mess around with email ports usage. Node.js might not recognize the MITM cert your antivirus is using. I have a different problem If you are having issues with Nodemailer, then the best way to find help would be Stack Overflow or revisit the docs. Contributors This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [Contribute]. Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [Become a backer] Sponsors Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up on our README on Github with a link to your website. [Become a sponsor] License Nodemailer is licensed under the MIT license The Nodemailer logo was designed by Sven Kristjansen.