Swiper Swiper - is the free and most modern mobile touch slider with hardware accelerated transitions and amazing native behavior. It is intended to be used in mobile websites, mobile web apps, and mobile native/hybrid apps. Designed mostly for iOS, but also works great on latest Android, Windows Phone 8 and modern Desktop browsers Swiper is not compatible with all platforms, it is a modern touch slider which is focused only on modern apps/platforms to bring the best experience and simplicity. Getting Started Getting Started Guide API Demos Forum Dist / Build On production use files (JS and CSS) only from dist/ folder, there will be the most stable versions, build/ folder is only for development purpose Development Build Swiper uses gulp to build a development (build) and production (dist) versions. First you need to have gulp-cli which you should install globally. $ npm install --global gulp Then install all dependencies, in repos root: $ npm install And build development version of Swiper: $ npm run build:dev The result is available in build/ folder. Production Build $ npm run build:prod Production version will available in dist/ folder. Contributing All changes should be committed to src/ files only. Before you open an issue please review the contributing guideline. Swiper 3.x If you are still using Swiper 3.x.x, you may find it in Swiper3 Branch Download Latest Swiper 3.4.2 Source Files * API Swiper 2.x If you are still using Swiper 2.x.x or you need old browsers support, you may find it in Swiper2 Branch Download Latest Swiper 2.7.6 Source Files * API