Vue.js Meta Framework to create complex, fast & universal web application quickly. Links ðŸ“˜ Documentation: https://nuxtjs.org ðŸŽ¬ Video: 1 minute demo ðŸ¦ Twitter: @nuxt_js ðŸ‘¥ Nuxt.js Community ðŸ“¦ Nuxt.js Modules ðŸ‘‰ Play with Nuxt.js online Features Automatic transpilation and bundling (with webpack and babel) Hot code reloading Server-side rendering OR Single Page App OR Static Generated, you choose :fire: Static file serving. ./static/ is mapped to / Configurable with a nuxt.config.js file Custom layouts with the layouts/ directory Middleware Code splitting for every pages/ Learn more at nuxtjs.org. Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Getting started $ npm install nuxt --save Add a script to your package.json like this: json { "scripts": { "start": "nuxt" } } After that, the file-system is the main API. Every .vue file becomes a route that gets automatically processed and rendered. Populate ./pages/index.vue inside your project: ```html Hello {{ name }}! export default { data: () => { return { name: world } } } ``` And then run: bash npm start Go to http://localhost:3000 Templates :point_right: We recommend to start directly with our cli create-nuxt-app for the lastest updates. Or you can start by using one of our starter templates: - starter: Basic Nuxt.js project template - express: Nuxt.js + Express - koa: Nuxt.js + Koa - adonuxt: Nuxt.js + AdonisJS - micro: Nuxt.js + Micro - nuxtent: Nuxt.js + Nuxtent module for content heavy sites Using nuxt.js programmatically ```js const { Nuxt, Builder } = require(nuxt) // Import and set nuxt.js options let config = require(./nuxt.config.js) config.dev = (process.env.NODE_ENV !== production) let nuxt = new Nuxt(config) // Start build process (only in development) if (config.dev) { new Builder(nuxt).build() } // You can use nuxt.render(req, res) or nuxt.renderRoute(route, context) ``` Learn more: https://nuxtjs.org/api/nuxt Using nuxt.js as a middleware You might want to use your own server with you configurations, your API and everything awesome your created with. Thats why you can use nuxt.js as a middleware. Its recommended to use it at the end of your middleware since it will handle the rendering of your web application and wont call next(). js app.use(nuxt.render) Learn more: https://nuxtjs.org/api/nuxt-render Render a specific route This is mostly used for nuxt generate and test purposes but you might find another utility! js nuxt.renderRoute(/about, context) .then(function ({ html, error }) { // You can check error to know if your app displayed the error page for this route // Useful to set the correct status code if an error appended: if (error) { return res.status(error.statusCode || 500).send(html) } res.send(html) }) .catch(function (error) { // And error appended while rendering the route }) Learn more: https://nuxtjs.org/api/nuxt-render-route Examples Please take a look at https://nuxtjs.org/examples or directly in https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt.js/tree/dev/examples. Production deployment To deploy, instead of running nuxt, you probably want to build ahead of time. Therefore, building and starting are separate commands: bash nuxt build nuxt start For example, to deploy with now a package.json like follows is recommended: json { "name": "my-app", "dependencies": { "nuxt": "latest" }, "scripts": { "dev": "nuxt", "build": "nuxt build", "start": "nuxt start" } } Then run now and enjoy! Note: we recommend putting .nuxt in .npmignore or .gitignore. Core team | Sebastien Chopin | Alexandre Chopin | Pooya Parsa | Clark Du | | --- | --- | --- | --- | | | | | | Contributors Thank you to all our contributors! Contributing Please see our CONTRIBUTING.md Roadmap https://trello.com/b/lgy93IOl/nuxtjs-10