October is a Content Management System (CMS) and web platform whose sole purpose is to make your development workflow simple again. It was born out of frustration with existing systems. We feel building websites has become a convoluted and confusing process that leaves developers unsatisfied. We want to turn you around to the simpler side and get back to basics. Octobers mission is to show the world that web development is not rocket science. Learning October The best place to learn October is by reading the documentation or following some tutorials. You may also watch these introductory videos for beginners and advanced users. Installing October Instructions on how to install October can be found at the installation guide. Quick start installation For advanced users, run this in your terminal to install October from command line: shell php -r "eval(?>.file_get_contents(https://octobercms.com/api/installer));" If you plan on using a database, run this command: shell php artisan october:install Development Team October was created by Alexey Bobkov and Samuel Georges, who (along with Luke Towers) continue to develop the platform. Foundation library The CMS uses Laravel as a foundation PHP framework. Contact You can communicate with us using the following mediums: Follow us on Twitter for announcements and updates. Follow us on Facebook for announcements and updates. Join us on IRC to chat with us. Join us on Slack to chat with us. License The OctoberCMS platform is open-sourced software licensed under the MIT license. Contributing Before sending a Pull Request, be sure to review the Contributing Guidelines first. Coding standards Please follow the following guides and code standards: PSR 4 Coding Standards PSR 2 Coding Style Guide PSR 1 Coding Standards