An exciting game of programming and Artificial Intelligence In WarriorJS, you wear the skin of a warrior climbing a tall tower to reach The JavaScript Sword at the top level. Legend has it that the sword bearer becomes enlightened in the JavaScript language, but be warned: the journey will not be easy. On each floor, you need to write JavaScript to instruct the warrior to battle enemies, rescue captives, and reach the stairs alive... No matter if you are new to programming or a JavaScript guru, WarriorJS will put your skills to the test. Will you dare? Quick Start Install WarriorJS with npm: sh npm install --global @warriorjs/cli Launch the game: sh warriorjs Create your warrior. Youll be pointed to a README file with instructions for the first level. Good luck in your journey, warrior! Documentation Learn how to play WarriorJS on the official site! Jump straight to some of the most-visited pages: Set Up Gameplay Towers Player API CLI Options Preview WarriorJS launched from the Integrated Terminal in VS Code. To the left, Player.js, and to the right, a Markdown Preview of README.md. Contributing We welcome contributions to WarriorJS! These are the many ways you can help: Submit patches and features Make towers (new levels for the game) Improve the documentation and website Report bugs Follow us on Twitter Participate in the Spectrum community And donate financially! Please read our contribution guide to get started. Also note that this project is released with a Contributor Code of Conduct, please make sure to review and follow it. Contributors Thanks goes to each one of our contributors! :pray: Become a contributor. Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities! Become a backer. Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo here and on the official site! Become a sponsor. Acknowledgments This project was born as a port of ruby-warrior. Credits for the original idea go to Ryan Bates. Special thanks to Guillermo Cura for designing a wonderful logo. License WarriorJS is licensed under a MIT License.