Metro 4 Components Library Sleek, intuitive, and powerful front-end framework for faster and easier web development. Build responsive, mobile-first projects on the web with the first front-end component library in Metro Style. Explore Metro 4 docs » Metro 4 is an MIT-licensed open source project. Its an independent project with its ongoing development made possible entirely thanks to the support by these awesome Backers. Current Version 4.2.12 Status Community Whats new Full code refactoring and optimisation New components New plugin model Declarative approach to the definition of components Framework itself monitors components, pressure via ajax Framework itself monitors components attributes to change Create cool page without knowledge of javascript Documentation and Demo for v4: getmetroui.com or metroui.org.ua or m4.org.ua. Credits Styles created using the less preprocessor by Alexis Sellier preCode by Leon Sorokin preCode easing functions by George McGinley Smith easing mousewheel.js by Brandon Aaron mousewheel strftime by Tom Doan strftime jQuery Core jquery scrolStop by Ross Allen ssorallen All who brought something good Browser Compatibility IE11+, Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, Android, IOS License Metro 4 has MIT License Old version Metro UI CSS 3.x you can find in a repo Metro-UI-CSS-3 Metro UI CSS 2.x you can find in a repo Metro-UI-CSS-2 Metro UI CSS 0.x you can find in a repo Metro-UI-CSS-095 Documentation and Demo for V3: metroui.org.ua/v3. Documentation and Demo for V2: metroui.org.ua/v2. Documentation and Demo for V0: metroui.org.ua/v0. Thanks Thanks to all. Special thanks to all those who financially supported the project. Testers Thanks to all who a testing a project.