Om A ClojureScript UI framework and client/server architecture over Facebooks React. Om UIs are out of the box snapshotable and undoable and these operations have no implementation complexity and little overhead. Om borrows ideas liberally from Facebooks Relay and Netflixs Falcor with a dash of inspiration from Datomic pull syntax to avoid the typical incidental complexity that arises from client/server state management. Dependency Information Latest release: 1.0.0-beta1 Leiningen and Boot dependency information: [org.omcljs/om "1.0.0-beta1"] Maven dependency information: <dependency> <groupId>org.omcljs</groupId> <artifactId>om</artifactId> <version>1.0.0-beta1</version> </dependency> Example ```clojure (ns example (:require [goog.dom :as gdom] [om.dom :as dom] [om.next :as om :refer [defui]])) (defui Hello Object (render [this] (dom/h1 nil "Hello, world!"))) (def hello (om/factory Hello)) (.render js/ReactDOM (hello) (gdom/getElement "example")) ``` Tutorials There is an Quick Start tutorial that will introduce you to the core concepts of Om here. There are also a variety of other guides here. Documentation There is documentation here Contributing Please contact me via email to request an electronic Contributor Agreement. Once your electronic CA has been signed and returned to me I will accept pull requests. Community If you are looking for help please get in touch either on the clojurians.slack.com #om channel or the om-cljs Google Group. References Worlds: Controlling the Scope of Side Effects A Functional I/O System Directness and Liveness in the Morphic User Interface Construction Environment Learnable Programming Relay Falcor GraphQL Datomic pull syntax Copyright and license Copyright © 2013-2017 David Nolen Licensed under the EPL (see the file epl.html).