OpenRA A Libre/Free Real Time Strategy game engine supporting early Westwood classics. Website: http://www.openra.net IRC: #openra on irc.freenode.net Repository: https://github.com/OpenRA/OpenRA Please read the FAQ in our Wiki and report problems at http://bugs.openra.net. Join the Forums for discussion. Play Distributed mods include a reimagining of Command & Conquer: Red Alert Command & Conquer: Tiberian Dawn Dune 2000 Check our Playing the Game Guide to win multiplayer matches. Contribute Please read INSTALL.md and Compiling on how to set up an OpenRA development environment. See Hacking for an overview of the engine. To get your patches merged, please adhere to the Contributing guidelines. Mapping We offer a Mapping Tutorial as you can change gameplay drastically with custom rules. For scripted mission have a look at the Lua API. If you want to share your maps with the community, upload them at the OpenRA Resource Center. Modding There exists an auto-generated Trait documentation to get started with yaml files. Check the Modding Guide to create your own classic RTS. Some hints on how to create new OpenRA compatible Pixelart. Upload total conversions at our ModDB profile. Support Sponsor a mirror server if you have some bandwidth to spare. You can immediately set up a Dedicated Game Server. Fund development by creating Bounties on specific tasks. License Copyright 2007-2017 The OpenRA Developers (see AUTHORS) This file is part of OpenRA, which is free software. It is made available to you under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version. For more information, see COPYING.