## Papers We Love (PWL) is a community built around reading, discussing and learning more about academic computer science papers. This repository serves as a directory of some of the best papers the community can find, bringing together documents scattered across the web. You can also visit the Papers We Love site for more info. Due to licenses we cannot always host the papers themselves (when we do, you will see a :scroll: emoji next to its title in the directory README) but we can provide links to their locations. If you enjoy the papers, perhaps stop by a local chapter meetup and join in on the vibrant discussions around them. You can also discuss PWL events, the content in this repository, and/or anything related to PWL on our Slack, after signing-up to join it, or on our #paperswelove IRC channel on freenode. Chapters Here are our official chapters. Let us know if you are interested in starting one in your city! Amsterdam Athens Atlanta Bangalore Barcelona Belfast Berlin Boston Brasilia Boulder Bucharest Chattanooga Chicago Columbus, Ohio Dallas Gothenburg Guadalajara Hamburg Hyderabad Iasi Iowa City Kathmandu Kyiv Lebanon London Los Angeles Madrid Medellín Montreal Munich New York City Paris Philadelphia Portland Porto Pune Raleigh-Durham Reykjavík Rio de Janeiro San Diego San Francisco Seattle Seoul, Korea Singapore St. Louis Teresina Toronto Vienna Washington, DC Winnipeg Zürich All of our meetups follow our Code of Conduct. Past Presentations Check out our Youtube and MixCloud (audio-only format) channels. Info Were looking for pull requests related to papers we should add, better organization of the papers we do have, and/or links to other paper-repos we should point to. Other Good Places to Find Papers 2 Minute Papers Bell System Technical Journal, 1922-1983 Best Paper Awards in Computer Science Facebook Google Scholar (choose a subcategory) Microsoft Research Functional Programming Books Review MITs Artificial Intelligence Lab Publications MITs Distributed Systems Reading Group arXiv Paper Repository SciRate cat-v.org y-archive netlib Services Engineering Reading List Readings in Distributed Systems Gradual Typing Bibliography Security Data Science Papers Research Papers from Robert Harper, Carnegie Mellon University Lobste.rs tagged as PDF The Morning Paper Please check out our wiki-page for links to blogs, books, exchanges that are worth a good read. How To Read a Paper Reading a paper is not the same as reading a blogpost or a novel. Here are a few handy resources to help you get started. How to read an academic article Advice on reading academic papers How to read and understand a scientific paper Should I Read Papers? The Refreshingly Rewarding Realm of Research Papers Applications/Ideas built around Papers We Love Love a Paper - @loveapaper Contributing Guidelines Please take a look at our CONTRIBUTING.md file. Copyright The name "Papers We Love" and the logos for the organization are copyrighted, and under the ownership of Papers We Love Ltd, all rights reserved. When starting a chapter, please review our guidelines and ask us about using the logo.