PermissionsDispatcher Fully Kotlin support Special Permissions support Xiaomi support 100% reflection-free PermissionsDispatcher provides a simple annotation-based API to handle runtime permissions. This library lifts the burden that comes with writing a bunch of check statements whether a permission has been granted or not from you, in order to keep your code clean and safe. Usage If youre using Kotlin check Kotlin ver first of all. Heres a minimum example, in which you register a MainActivity which requires Manifest.permission.CAMERA. 0. Prepare AndroidManifest Add the following line to AndroidManifest.xml: <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" /> 1. Attach annotations PermissionsDispatcher introduces only a few annotations, keeping its general API concise: NOTE: Annotated methods must not be private. |Annotation|Required|Description| |---|---|---| |@RuntimePermissions|✓|Register an Activity or Fragment(we support both) to handle permissions| |@NeedsPermission|✓|Annotate a method which performs the action that requires one or more permissions| |@OnShowRationale||Annotate a method which explains why the permission/s is/are needed. It passes in a PermissionRequest object which can be used to continue or abort the current permission request upon user input| |@OnPermissionDenied||Annotate a method which is invoked if the user doesnt grant the permissions| |@OnNeverAskAgain||Annotate a method which is invoked if the user chose to have the device "never ask again" about a permission| ```java @RuntimePermissions public class MainActivity extends AppCompatActivity { @NeedsPermission(Manifest.permission.CAMERA) void showCamera() { getSupportFragmentManager().beginTransaction() .replace(R.id.sample_content_fragment, CameraPreviewFragment.newInstance()) .addToBackStack("camera") .commitAllowingStateLoss(); } @OnShowRationale(Manifest.permission.CAMERA) void showRationaleForCamera(final PermissionRequest request) { new AlertDialog.Builder(this) .setMessage(R.string.permission_camera_rationale) .setPositiveButton(R.string.button_allow, (dialog, button) -> request.proceed()) .setNegativeButton(R.string.button_deny, (dialog, button) -> request.cancel()) .show(); } @OnPermissionDenied(Manifest.permission.CAMERA) void showDeniedForCamera() { Toast.makeText(this, R.string.permission_camera_denied, Toast.LENGTH_SHORT).show(); } @OnNeverAskAgain(Manifest.permission.CAMERA) void showNeverAskForCamera() { Toast.makeText(this, R.string.permission_camera_neverask, Toast.LENGTH_SHORT).show(); } } ``` 2. Delegate to generated class Upon compilation, PermissionsDispatcher generates a class for MainActivityPermissionsDispatcher([Activity Name] + PermissionsDispatcher), which you can use to safely access these permission-protected methods. The only step you have to do is delegating the work to this helper class: ```java @Override protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) { super.onCreate(savedInstanceState); setContentView(R.layout.activity_main); findViewById(R.id.button_camera).setOnClickListener(v -> { // NOTE: delegate the permission handling to generated method MainActivityPermissionsDispatcher.showCameraWithPermissionCheck(this); }); } @Override public void onRequestPermissionsResult(int requestCode, @NonNull String[] permissions, @NonNull int[] grantResults) { super.onRequestPermissionsResult(requestCode, permissions, grantResults); // NOTE: delegate the permission handling to generated method MainActivityPermissionsDispatcher.onRequestPermissionsResult(this, requestCode, grantResults); } ``` Check out the sample for more details. Other features Getting Special Permissions maxSdkVersion Xiaomi Since Xiaomi manipulates something around runtime permission mechanism Googles recommended way doesnt work well. But dont worry, PermissionsDispatcher supports it! Check related PR for more detail. IntelliJ plugin AndroidAnnotations plugin If you use AndroidAnnotations, you need to add AndroidAnnotationsPermissionsDispatcherPlugin. Known issues If youre in trouble check known issues list before filing an issue. Users Thankfully weve got hundreds of users around the world! Download To add PermissionsDispatcher to your project, include the following in your app module build.gradle file: ${latest.version} is groovy dependencies { implementation "com.github.hotchemi:permissionsdispatcher:${latest.version}" annotationProcessor "com.github.hotchemi:permissionsdispatcher-processor:${latest.version}" } Snapshots of the development version are available in JFrogs snapshots repository. Add the repo below to download SNAPSHOT releases. groovy repositories { jcenter() maven { url http://oss.jfrog.org/artifactory/oss-snapshot-local/ } } Misc If you include Jitpack.io dependencies in your project, it is important to review the order of the repositories available to your app module Because of the librarys artifact ID, Jitpack might be tempted to resolve the dependency on its own, which could lead to an error during Gradles configuration time If youre going to bump up the major version number we recommend to refer to migration guide Licence ``` Copyright 2016 Shintaro Katafuchi, Marcel Schnelle, Yoshinori Isogai Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. ```