Got a question? Join us on stackoverflow, the mailing list or chat on IRC Introduction Bluebird is a fully featured promise library with focus on innovative features and performance See the bluebird website for further documentation, references and instructions. See the API reference here. For bluebird 2.x documentation and files, see the 2.x tree. Note Promises in Node.js 10 are significantly faster than before. Bluebird still includes a lot of features like cancellation, iteration methods and warnings that native promises dont. If you are using Bluebird for performance rather than for those - please consider giving native promises a shot and running the benchmarks yourself. Questions and issues The github issue tracker is only for bug reports and feature requests. Anything else, such as questions for help in using the library, should be posted in StackOverflow under tags promise and bluebird. Thanks Thanks to BrowserStack for providing us with a free account which lets us support old browsers like IE8. License The MIT License (MIT) Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Petka Antonov Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.