Phalcon Framework Phalcon is an open source web framework delivered as a C extension for the PHP language providing high performance and lower resource consumption. A big thank you to our Backers; you rock! Contents Get Started Windows Linux/Unix/Mac Requirements Ubuntu Suse CentOS/Fedora/RHEL macOS(Sierra / El Capitan / Yosemite) OSX MAMP ready extensions Gentoo Compilation Contributing External Links Meet the Incubator Sponsors Backers License Get Started Phalcon is written in Zephir/C with platform independence in mind. As a result, Phalcon is available on Microsoft Windows, GNU/Linux, FreeBSD and MacOS. You can either download a binary package for the system of your choice or build it from source. Windows To install Phalcon on Windows: Download Phalcon for Windows Extract the DLL file and copy it to your PHP extensions directory Edit your php.ini file and add this line: ini extension=php_phalcon.dll Finally, restart your web server Hint: To ensure that your Phalcon installation was successful, debug with php <?php phpinfo(); ?> and search for a section mentioning the Phalcon extension. Linux/Unix/Mac On a Unix-based platform you can easily compile and install the extension from sources. Requirements Prerequisite packages are: PHP 5.5.x/5.6.x/7.0.x/7.1.x/7.2.x development resources (PHP 5.3 and 5.4 are no longer supported) g++ >= 4.4 | clang++ >= 3.x | vc++ >= 11 GNU make >= 3.81 re2c >= 0.13 NOTE: Support for PHP 5.x is provided on a best-effort basis and will be removed in near future. Ubuntu ```bash Use actual PHP development headers and tools here sudo apt-get install php5-dev libpcre3-dev gcc make re2c ``` Suse ```bash Use actual PHP development headers and tools here sudo zypper install php5-devel gcc make re2c ``` CentOS/Fedora/RHEL ```bash Use actual PHP development headers and tools here sudo yum install php-devel pcre-devel gcc make re2c ``` macOS(Sierra / El Capitan / Yosemite) Using Homebrew ```bash brew install php-phalcon available versions 56, 70, 71 brew install php71-phalcon ``` OSX MAMP ready extensions https://github.com/majksner/php-phalcon-mamp Gentoo There is Gentoo ebuilds maintained for the Phalcon Framework: https://github.com/smoke/phalcon-gentoo-overlay Compilation Follow these instructions to generate a binary extension for your platform: bash git clone git://github.com/phalcon/cphalcon.git cd cphalcon/build sudo ./install If you have specific php versions running bash git clone https://github.com/phalcon/cphalcon cd cphalcon/build sudo ./install --phpize /usr/bin/phpize5.6 --php-config /usr/bin/php-config5.6 Add the extension to your php.ini: ini extension=phalcon.so Finally, restart the web server. Contributing See CONTRIBUTING.md for details. External Links Documentation Support Zephir Twitter Meet the Incubator Our community is developing amazing extra features for Phalcon every day via Incubator. There are resources to enhance your experience with the framework and that enlarge the main features. Just give it a try and help us improve Phalcon even more! Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] License Phalcon is open source software licensed under the New BSD License. See the LICENSE.txt file for more.