:zap: A powerful & easy to use chart library for Android :zap: Charts is the iOS version of this library Realtime Graphing Solution | SciChart MPAndroidChart is free software, as a result dynamic & realtime data is not officially supported. If you are looking for an enterprise-grade chart solution with extreme realtime performance and tech support, we recommend SciChart Android. All MPAndroidChart users are entitled to a special discount of 5% off the SciChart store, using the following discount code: MPANDROIDCHART Usage :chart_with_upwards_trend: Gradle Project level build.gradle gradle allprojects { repositories { maven { url https://jitpack.io } } } App level build.gradle gradle dependencies { implementation com.github.PhilJay:MPAndroidChart:v3.0.3 } Maven ```xml <repositories> section of pom.xml jitpack.io https://jitpack.io <dependencies> section of pom.xml com.github.PhilJay MPAndroidChart v3.0.3 ``` Documentation :notebook_with_decorative_cover: See the documentation for examples and general use of MPAndroidChart. See the javadocs for more advanced documentation. Examples :eyes: Download the MPAndroidChart Example App or look at the source code. Questions & Issues :thinking: This repositorys issue tracker is only for bugs and feature requests. The maintainers ask that you refrain from asking questions about how to use MPAndroidChart through the issue tracker. Please read the documentation first, then ask all your questions on stackoverflow.com for the fastest answer. Donations :heart: This project needs you! If you would like to support this projects further development, the creator of this project or the continuous maintenance of this project, feel free to donate. Your donation is highly appreciated (and I love food, coffee and beer). Thank you! My Bitcoin Wallet (Bitcoin only) 1G8G6tqQ3oh38BvDH3xq8o6gGVMvBTkcUg My Ethereum Wallet (Ethereum only) 0x04ef098bf9f91871391363e3caf791afa3adc39b PayPal Donate 5 $: Thanks for creating this project, heres a coffee (or some beer) for you! Donate 10 $: Wow, I am stunned. Let me take you to the movies! Donate 15 $: I really appreciate your work, lets grab some lunch! Donate 25 $: Thats some awesome stuff you did right there, dinner is on me! Or you can also choose what you want to donate, all donations are awesome! Social Media :fire: If you like this library, please tell others about it :two_hearts: :two_hearts: You can follow the creator on Twitter @PhilippJahoda Philipp is also on StackOverflow More Examples :+1: LineChart (with legend, simple design) LineChart (with legend, simple design) LineChart (cubic lines) LineChart (gradient fill) BarChart (with legend, simple design) BarChart (grouped DataSets) Horizontal-BarChart Combined-Chart (bar- and linechart in this case) PieChart (with selection, ...) ScatterChart (with squares, triangles, circles, ... and more) CandleStickChart (for financial data) BubbleChart (area covered by bubbles indicates the yValue) RadarChart (spider web chart) License :page_facing_up: Copyright 2018 Philipp Jahoda Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. Special Thanks :heart: These people rock! danielgindi - Daniel Gindi mikegr - Michael Greifeneder tony - Tony almic - Mick A. jitpack.io - JitPack.io