Flexbugs This repository is a community-curated list of flexbox issues and cross-browser workarounds for them. The goal is that if youre building a website using flexbox and something isnt working as youd expect, you can find the solution here. As the spec continues to evolve and vendors nail down their implementations, this repo will be updated with newly discovered issues and remove old issues as theyre fixed or become obsolete. If you discover a bug thats not listed here, please report it so everyone else can benefit. The bugs and their workarounds Minimum content sizing of flex items not honored Column flex items set to align-items: center overflow their container min-height on a flex container wont apply to its flex items flex shorthand declarations with unitless flex-basis values are ignored Column flex items dont always preserve intrinsic aspect ratios The default flex value has changed flex-basis doesnt account for box-sizing: border-box flex-basis doesnt support calc() Some HTML elements cant be flex containers align-items: baseline doesnt work with nested flex containers Min and max size declarations are ignored when wrapping flex items Inline elements are not treated as flex-items Importance is ignored on flex-basis when using flex shorthand Shrink-to-fit containers with flex-flow: column wrap do not contain their items Column flex items ignore margin: auto on the cross axis flex-basis cannot be animated Flex items are not correctly justified when max-width is used To preserve old links Flexbug #1 Minimum content sizing of flex items not honored Demos Browsers affected Tracking bugs 1.1.a – bug 1.1.b – workaround 1.2.a – bug 1.2.b – workaround Chrome (partially fixed in 44) Opera (partially fixed in 31) Safari (fixed in 10) Chrome #426898 (fixed) Chrome #676985 Chrome #596743 Safari #146020 (fixed) When flex items are too big to fit inside their container, those items are instructed (by the flex layout algorithm) to shrink, proportionally, according to their flex-shrink property. But contrary to what most browsers allow, theyre not supposed to shrink indefinitely. They must always be at least as big as their minimum height or width properties declare, and if no minimum height or width properties are set, their minimum size should be the default minimum size of their content. According to the current flexbox specification: By default, flex items wont shrink below their minimum content size (the length of the longest word or fixed-size element). To change this, set the min-width or min-height property. Workaround The flexbox spec defines an initial flex-shrink value of 1 but says items should not shrink below their default minimum content size. You can usually get this same behavior by setting a flex-shrink value of 0 (instead of the default 1) and a flex-basis value of auto. That will cause the flex item to be at least as big as its width or height (if declared) or its default content size. To preserve old links Flexbug #2 Column flex items set to align-items: center overflow their container Demos Browsers affected 2.1.a – bug 2.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) When using align-items: center on a flex container in the column direction, the contents of flex item, if too big, will overflow their container in IE 10-11. Workaround Most of the time, this can be fixed by simply setting max-width: 100% on the flex item. If the flex item has a padding or border set, youll also need to make sure to use box-sizing: border-box to account for that space. If the flex item has a margin, using box-sizing alone will not work, so you may need to use a container element with padding instead. To preserve old links Flexbug #3 min-height on a flex container wont apply to its flex items Demos Browsers affected Tracking bugs 3.1.a – bug 3.1.b – workaround 3.2.a – bug 3.2.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) IE #802625 In order for flex items to size and position themselves, they need to know how big their containers are. For example, if a flex item is supposed to be vertically centered, it needs to know how tall its parent is. The same is true when flex items are told to grow to fill the remaining empty space. In IE 10-11, min-height declarations on flex containers work to size the containers themselves, but their flex item children do not seem to know the size of their parents. They act as if no height has been set at all. Workaround By far the most common element to apply min-height to is the body element, and usually youre setting it to 100% (or 100vh). Since the body element will never have any content below it, and since having a vertical scroll bar appear when theres a lot of content on the page is usually the desired behavior, substituting height for min-height will almost always work as shown in demo 3.1.b. For cases where min-height is required, the workaround is to add a wrapper element around the flex container that is itself a flex container in the column direction. For some reason nested flex containers are not affected by this bug. Demo 3.2.a shows a visual design where min-height is required, and demo 3.2.b shows how this bug can be avoided with a wrapper element. To preserve old links Flexbug #4 flex shorthand declarations with unitless flex-basis values are ignored Demos Browsers affected 4.1.a – bug 4.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) Prior to the release of IE 10, the flexbox spec at the time stated that a flexbox items preferred size required a unit when using the flex shorthand: If the <preferred-size> is ‘0, it must be specified with a unit (like ‘0px) to avoid ambiguity; unitless zero will either be interpreted as as one of the flexibilities, or is a syntax error. This is no longer true in the spec, but IE 10-11 still treat it as true. If you use the declaration flex: 1 0 0 in one of these browsers, it will be an error and the entire rule (including all the flexibility properties) will be ignored. Workaround When using the flex shorthand, always include a unit in the flex-basis portion. For example: 1 0 0%. Important: using a flex value of something like 1 0 0px can still be a problem because many CSS minifiers will convert 0px to 0. To avoid this, make sure to use 0% instead of 0px since most minifiers wont touch percentage values for other reasons. To preserve old links Flexbug #5 Column flex items dont always preserve intrinsic aspect ratios Demos Browsers affected 5.1.a – bug 5.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) The March 2014 spec has the following to say about how size determinations are made for flex items: On a flex item whose overflow is not visible, this [auto] keyword specifies as the minimum size the smaller of: (a) the min-content size, or (b) the computed width/height, if that value is definite. Demo 5.1.a contains an image whose height is 200 pixels and whose width is 500 pixels. Its container, however, is only 300 pixels wide, so after the image is scaled to fit into that space, its computed height should only be 120 pixels. The text quoted above does not make it clear as to whether the flex items min-content size should be based the images actual height or scaled height. The most recent spec has resolved this ambiguity in favor of using sizes that will preserve an elements intrinsic aspect ratio. Workaround You can avoid this problem by adding a container element to house the element with the intrinsic aspect ratio. Since doing this causes the element with the intrinsic aspect ratio to no longer be a flex item, it will be sized normally. To preserve old links Flexbug #6 The default flex value has changed Demos Browsers affected 6.1.a – bug 6.1.b – workaround 6.2.a – bug 6.2.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10 (fixed in 11) When IE 10 was being developed, the March 2012 spec said the initial value for the flex property was none, which translates to 0 0 auto. The most recent spec sets the initial flex value to the initial values of the individual flexibility properties, which corresponds to initial or 0 1 auto. Notice that this means IE 10 uses a different initial flex-shrink value (technically it was called neg-flex in the spec at the time) from every other browser. Other browsers (including IE 11) use an initial value of 1 rather than 0. This bug can manifest itself in two ways: when not setting any flex values or when using one of the flex shorthands. In both cases, flex items in IE 10 will behave differently from all other browsers. The following table illustrates the difference: Declaration What it should mean What it means in IE 10 (no flex declaration) flex: 0 1 auto flex: 0 0 auto flex: 1 flex: 1 1 0% flex: 1 0 0px flex: auto flex: 1 1 auto flex: 1 0 auto flex: initial flex: 0 1 auto flex: 0 0 auto Workaround If you have to support IE 10, the best solution is to always set an explicit flex-shrink value on all of your flex items, or to always use the longhand form (rather than the shorthand) in flex declarations to avoid the gotchas shown in the table above. Demo 6.1.a shows how not setting any flexibility properties causes an error, and demo 6.2.a shows how using flex: 1 can have the same problem. To preserve old links Flexbug #7 flex-basis doesnt account for box-sizing: border-box Demos Browsers affected 7.1.a – bug 7.1.b – workaround 7.1.c – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) An explicit flex-basis value (i.e., any value other than auto) is supposed to act just like width or height. It determines the initial size of a flex item and then the other flexibility properties allow it to grow or shrink accordingly. IE 10-11 always assume a content box model when using flex-basis to determine a flex items size, even if that item is set to box-sizing: border-box. Demo 7.1.a shows that an item with a flex-basis value of 100% will overflow its container by the amount of its border plus its padding. Workaround There are two ways to work around this bug. The first requires no additional markup, but the second is slightly more flexible: Instead of setting an explicit flex-basis value, use auto, and then set an explicit width or height. Demo 7.1.b shows this. Use a wrapper element that contains no border or padding so it works with the content box model. Demo 7.1.c show this. To preserve old links Flexbug #8 flex-basis doesnt support calc() Demos Browsers affected 8.1.a – bug 8.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) 8.2.a – bug 8.2.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10 (fixed in 11) IE 10-11 ignore calc() functions used in flex shorthand declarations. Demo 8.1.a shows flex: 0 0 calc(100%/3) not working in IE. In IE 10, calc() functions dont even work in longhand flex-basis declarations (though this does work in IE 11). Demo 8.2.a shows flex-basis: calc(100%/3) not working in IE 10. Workaround Since this bug only affects the flex shorthand declaration in IE 11, an easy workaround (if you only need to support IE 11) is to always specify each flexibility property individually. Demo 8.1.b offers an example of this. If you need to support IE 10 as well, then youll need to fall back to setting width or height (depending on the containers flex-direction property). You can do this by setting a flex-basis value of auto, which will instruct the browser to use the elements main size property (i.e., its width or height). Demo 8.2.b offers an example of this. To preserve old links Flexbug #9 Some HTML elements cant be flex containers Demos Browsers affected Tracking bugs 9.1.a – bug 9.1.b – workaround 9.2.a – bug 9.2.b – workaround Chrome Edge Firefox (partially fixed in 52) Opera Safari (fixed in 11) Chrome #375693 Chrome #700029 Edge #4511145 Firefox #984869 (fixed) Firefox #1230207 (fixed) Firefox #1397768 Safari #169082 (fixed) Safari #169700 (fixed) Certain HTML elements, like <fieldset> and <button>, do not work as flex containers. The browsers default rendering of those elements UI conflicts with the display: flex declaration. Demo 9.1.a shows how <button> elements didnt work in Firefox, and demo 9.2.a shows that <fieldset> elements dont work in most browsers. Workaround The simple solution to this problem is to use a wrapper element that can be a flex container (like a <div>) directly inside of the element that cant. Demos 9.1.b and 9.2.b show workaround for the <button> and <fieldset> elements, respectively. To preserve old links Flexbug #10 align-items: baseline doesnt work with nested flex containers Demos Browsers affected Tracking bugs 10.1.a – bug 10.1.b – workaround Firefox (fixed in 52) Firefox #1146442 (fixed) In Firefox, nested flex containers dont contribute to the baseline that other flex items should align themselves to. Demo 10.1.a shows the line on the left incorrectly aligning itself to the second line of text on the right. It should be aligned to the first line of text, which is the inner flex container. Workaround This bug only affects nested containers set to display: flex. If you set the nested container to display: inline-flex it works as expected. Note that when using inline-flex you will probably also need to set the width to 100%. To preserve old links Flexbug #11 Min and max size declarations are ignored when wrapping flex items Demos Browsers affected Tracking bugs 11.1.a – bug 11.1.b – workaround Safari (fixed in 10.1) Safari #136041 Safari uses min/max width/height declarations for actually rendering the size of flex items, but it ignores those values when calculating how many items should be on a single line of a multi-line flex container. Instead, it simply uses the items flex-basis value, or its width if the flex basis is set to auto. This is problematic when using the flex: 1 shorthand because that sets the flex basis to 0%, and an infinite number of flex items could fit on a single line if the browser thinks their widths are all zero. Demo 11.1.a show an example of this happening. This is also problematic when creating fluid layouts where you want your flex items to be no bigger than X but no smaller than Y. Since Safari ignores those values when determining how many items fit on a line, that strategy wont work. Workaround The only way to avoid this issue is to make sure to set the flex basis to a value that is always going to be between (inclusively) the min and max size declarations. If using either a min or a max size declaration, set the flex basis to whatever that value is, if youre using both a min and a max size declaration, set the flex basis to a value that is somewhere in that range. This sometimes requires using percentage values or media queries to cover all possible scenarios. Demo 11.1.b shows an example of setting the flex basis to the same value as the min width to workaround this bug in Safari. To preserve old links Flexbug #12 Inline elements are not treated as flex-items Demos Browsers affected 12.1.a – bug 12.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) Inline elements, including ::before and ::after pseudo-elements, are not treated as flex items in IE 10. IE 11 fixed this bug with regular inline element, but it still affects the ::before and ::after pseudo-elements. Workaround This issue can be avoided by adding a non-inline display value to the items, e.g. block, inline-block, flex, etc. Demo 12.1.b shows an example of this working in IE 10-11. To preserve old links Flexbug #13 Importance is ignored on flex-basis when using flex shorthand Demos Browsers affected 13.1.a – bug 13.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10 (fixed in 11) When applying !important to a flex shorthand declaration, IE 10 applies !important to the flex-grow and flex-shrink parts but not to the flex-basis part. Demo 13.1.a shows an example of a declaration with !important not overriding another declaration in IE 10. Workaround If you need the flex-basis part of your flex declaration to be !important and you have to support IE 10, make sure to include a flex-basis declaration separately. Demo 13.1.b shows an example of this working in IE 10. To preserve old links Flexbug #14 Shrink-to-fit containers with flex-flow: column wrap do not contain their items Demos Browsers affected Tracking Bugs 14.1.a – bug 14.1.b – workaround 14.1.c – workaround Chrome Firefox Safari Opera Chrome #507397 Firefox #995020 Safari #157648 If you float a flex container, use inline-flex, or absolutely position it, the size of the container becomes determined by its content (a.k.a shrink-to-fit). When using flex-flow: column wrap, some browsers do not properly size the container based on its content, and there is unwanted overflow. Demo 14.1.a shows an example of this. Workaround If your container has a fixed height (usually the case when you enable wrapping), you avoid this bug by using flex-flow: row wrap (note row instead of column) and fake the column behavior by updating the containers writing mode (and reseting it on the items). Demo 14.1.b shows an example of this working in all modern browsers. Note: To use this workaround in Safari 10 you may need to set explicit dimensions on the flex items. Demo 14.1.c shows an example of how this can be needed in Safari 10. Flexbug #15 Column flex items ignore margin-auto on the cross axis Demos Browsers affected Tracking Bugs 15.1.a – bug 15.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 (fixed in Edge) IE #14593426 margin: auto can be used to fill all the available space between flex items (and is useful for centering), but in IE 10-11 this doesnt work in the cross axis for flex items within a column container. Instead of filling the available space, items render according to their align-self property, which defaults to stretch. Demo 15.1.a shows an example of this. Workaround If youre using margin: auto to center items, you can achieve the same effect by setting align-self: center on each item with margin: auto (or align-items: center on the container). Demo 15.1.b shows this working in IE 10-11. Flexbug #16 flex-basis cannot be animated Demos Browsers affected Tracking Bugs 16.1.a – bug 16.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 10-11 Safari Safari #180435 In some browsers, CSS animations involving the flex-basis property are ignored. Demo 16.1.a shows an example of this. Workaround Since the flex-basis property is effectively just a substitute for the containers size property along the main axis (width for rows and height for columns), you can achieve the affect of animating flex-basis by using a flex-basis value of auto and instead animating either the width or height instead. Demo 16.1.b shows how you can achieve the same affect from demo 16.1.a by animating width instead of flex-basis. Flexbug #17 Flex items are not correctly justified when max-width is used Demos Browsers affected 17.1.a – bug 17.1.b – workaround Internet Explorer 11 In IE 11 the free space between or around flex items (as per their containers justify-content property) is not correctly calculated if a max-size property is used (max-width in the row direction, max-height in the column direction). Demo 17.1.a shows an example of this. Workaround In most cases where a max-size property is used on a flex item, the desired result is to have that items initial size start at the value of the flex-basis property and grow to no larger than its max-size value. In such cases, the same effect can be achieved by initially specifying the desired max-size as the items flex-basis and then letting it shrink by setting the min-size property (min-width in the row direction, min-height in the column direction) to whatever flex-basis was previously set to. In other words, the following two declarations will both render an item with a final size between 0% and 25% depending on the available free space: ```css .using-a-grow-strategy { flex: 1 0 0%; max-width: 25%; } .using-a-shrink-strategy { flex: 0 1 25%; min-width: 0%; } ``` Demo 17.1.b shows this working in IE 11. Acknowledgments Flexbugs was created as a follow-up to the article Normalizing Cross-Browser Flexbox Bugs. Its maintained by @philwalton and @gregwhitworth. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please feel free to reach out to either of us on Twitter. Contributing If youve discovered a flexbox bug and would like to submit a workaround for it, please open an issue or submit a pull request. Make sure to submit relevant test cases or screenshots and indicate which browsers are affected. Please only submit bugs if they have a viable workaround and the workaround applies to most use cases. If you do not know of a workaround, but youre reasonably confident one exists, please indicate that in the issue and the community can help investigate. Note: Do not submit bugs here in lieu of reporting them to browser vendors. Reporting bugs to browser vendors is the best and fastest way to get bugs fixed.