Spectre.css Spectre.css is a lightweight, responsive and modern CSS framework. Lightweight (~10KB gzipped) starting point for your projects Flexbox-based, responsive and mobile-friendly layout Elegantly designed and developed elements and components Spectre is a side project based on years of CSS development work on a large web service project. Spectre only includes modern base styles, responsive layout system, CSS components and utilities, and it can be modified for your project with Sass/Scss compiler. Spectre.css is completely free to use. If you enjoy it, please consider donating via Paypal for the further development. ♥ Getting started There are 5 ways to get started with Spectre CSS framework in your projects. You can either manually install or use NPM, Yarn and Bower. Install manually Download the compiled and minified Spectre CSS files. And include spectre.css located in /docs/dist in your website or Web app <head> part. <link rel="stylesheet" href="spectre.min.css"> Install from CDN Alternatively, you can use the unpkg or cdnjs CDN to load compiled Spectre.css. <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/spectre.css/dist/spectre.min.css"> Install with NPM $ npm install spectre.css --save Install with Yarn $ yarn add spectre.css Install with Bower $ bower install spectre.css --save Compiling custom version You can compile your custom version of Spectre.css. Read the documentation. Documentation and examples Elements Typography Tables Buttons Forms Icons - CSS only Labels Code Media Layout Flexbox grid Responsive Navbar Components Accordions Avatars Badges Breadcrumbs Bars Cards Chips Empty states Menu Nav Modals Pagination Panels Popovers Steps Tabs Tiles Toasts Tooltips Utilities Utilities - colors, display, divider, loading, position, shapes and text utilities Experimentals Autocomplete Calendars Carousels - CSS only Comparison Sliders - CSS only Filters - CSS only Meters Off-canvas - CSS only Parallax - CSS only Progress Sliders Timelines Browser support Spectre uses Autoprefixer to make most styles compatible with earlier browsers and Normalize.css for CSS resets. Spectre is designed for modern browsers. For best compatibility, these browsers are recommended: Chrome (LAST 4) Microsoft Edge (LAST 4) Firefox (EXTENDED SUPPORT RELEASE) Safari (LAST 4) Opera (LAST 4) Internet Explorer 10+ Spectre supports Internet Explorer 10+, but some HTML5 and CSS3 features are not perfectly supported by Internet Explorer. Designed and built with ♥ by Yan Zhu. Feel free to submit a pull request. Help is always appreciated.