What is TiDB? TiDB (The pronunciation is: /taɪdiːbi:/ tai-D-B, etymology: titanium) is an open-source distributed scalable Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing (HTAP) database. It features infinite horizontal scalability, strong consistency, and high availability. TiDB is MySQL compatible and serves as a one-stop data warehouse for both OLTP (Online Transactional Processing) and OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) workloads. Horizontal scalability TiDB provides horizontal scalability simply by adding new nodes. Never worry about infrastructure capacity ever again. MySQL compatibility Easily replace MySQL with TiDB to power your applications without changing a single line of code in most cases and still benefit from the MySQL ecosystem. Distributed transaction TiDB is your source of truth, guaranteeing ACID compliance, so your data is accurate and reliable anytime, anywhere. Cloud Native TiDB is designed to work in the cloud -- public, private, or hybrid -- making deployment, provisioning, and maintenance drop-dead simple. No more ETL ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) is no longer necessary with TiDBs hybrid OLTP/OLAP architecture, enabling you to create new values for your users, easier and faster. High availability With TiDB, your data and applications are always on and continuously available, so your users are never disappointed. For more details, see How we build TiDB. Adopters You can view the list of TiDB adopters here. Roadmap Read the Roadmap. Quick start Read the Quick Start. Documentation English 简体中文 Architecture Contributing Contributions are welcomed and greatly appreciated. See CONTRIBUTING.md for details on submitting patches and the contribution workflow. Connect with us Contact PingCAP Team Twitter: @PingCAP Reddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/TiDB/ Stack Overflow: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/tidb Mailing list: Google Group License TiDB is under the Apache 2.0 license. See the LICENSE file for details. Acknowledgments Thanks cznic for providing some great open source tools. Thanks GolevelDB, BoltDB, and RocksDB for their powerful storage engines.