PixiJS — The HTML5 Creation Engine The aim of this project is to provide a fast lightweight 2D library that works across all devices. The PixiJS renderer allows everyone to enjoy the power of hardware acceleration without prior knowledge of WebGL. Also, its fast. Really fast. If you want to keep up to date with the latest PixiJS news then feel free to follow us on Twitter (@doormat23, @rolnaaba, @bigtimebuddy, @ivanpopelyshev) and we will keep you posted! You can also check back on our site as any breakthroughs will be posted up there too! Your support helps us make PixiJS even better. Make your pledge on Patreon and well love you forever! What to Use PixiJS for and When to Use It PixiJS is a rendering library that will allow you to create rich, interactive graphics, cross platform applications, and games without having to dive into the WebGL API or deal with browser and device compatibility. PixiJS has full WebGL support and seamlessly falls back to HTML5s canvas if needed. As a framework, PixiJS is a fantastic tool for authoring interactive content, especially with the move away from Adobe Flash in recent years. Use it for your graphics rich, interactive websites, applications, and HTML5 games. Out of the box cross-platform compatibility and graceful degradation mean you have less work to do and have more fun doing it! If you want to create polished and refined experiences relatively quickly, without delving into dense, low level code, all while avoiding the headaches of browser inconsistencies, then sprinkle your next project with some PixiJS magic! Boost your development and feel free to use your imagination! Learn Website: Find out more about PixiJS on the offical website. Getting started: Check out @kittykatattacks comprehensive tutorial. Examples: Get stuck right in and play around with PixiJS code and features right here! Docs: Get to know the PixiJS API by checking out the docs. Wiki: Other misc tutorials and resources are on the Wiki. Community Forums: Check out the forum and Stackoverflow, both friendly places to ask your pixi questions. Inspiration: Check out the gallery to see some of the amazing things people have created! Chat: You can join us on Gitter To chat about PixiJS. We also now have a Slack channel. If you would like to join it please Send me an email (mat@goodboydigital.com) and I will invite you in. Setup Its easy to get started with PixiJS! Simply download a prebuilt build! Alternatively, PixiJS can be installed with npm or simply using a content delivery network (CDN) URL to embed PixiJS directly on your HTML page. Note: After v4.5.0, support for the Bower package manager has been dropped. Please see the release notes for more information. NPM Install sh npm install pixi.js There is no default export. The correct way to import PixiJS is: js import * as PIXI from pixi.js CDN Install (via cdnjs) html <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/pixi.js/4.7.1/pixi.min.js"></script> Note: 4.7.1 can be replaced by any released version. Demos Filters Demo Run Pixie Run Flash vs HTML Bunny Demo Storm Brewing Render Texture Demo Primitives Demo Masking Demo Interaction Demo photonstorms Balls Demo photonstorms Morph Demo Thanks to @photonstorm for providing those last 2 examples and allowing us to share the source code :) Contribute Want to be part of the PixiJS project? Great! All are welcome! We will get there quicker together :) Whether you find a bug, have a great feature request or you fancy owning a task from the road map above feel free to get in touch. Make sure to read the Contributing Guide before submitting changes. Current features WebGL renderer (with automatic smart batching allowing for REALLY fast performance) Canvas renderer (Fastest in town!) Full scene graph Super easy to use API (similar to the flash display list API) Support for texture atlases Asset loader / sprite sheet loader Auto-detect which renderer should be used Full Mouse and Multi-touch Interaction Text BitmapFont text Multiline Text Render Texture Primitive Drawing Masking Filters User Plugins Basic Usage Example ```js // The application will create a renderer using WebGL, if possible, // with a fallback to a canvas render. It will also setup the ticker // and the root stage PIXI.Container const app = new PIXI.Application(); // The application will create a canvas element for you that you // can then insert into the DOM document.body.appendChild(app.view); // load the texture we need PIXI.loader.add(bunny, bunny.png).load((loader, resources) => { // This creates a texture from a bunny.png image const bunny = new PIXI.Sprite(resources.bunny.texture); // Setup the position of the bunny bunny.x = app.renderer.width / 2; bunny.y = app.renderer.height / 2; // Rotate around the center bunny.anchor.x = 0.5; bunny.anchor.y = 0.5; // Add the bunny to the scene we are building app.stage.addChild(bunny); // Listen for frame updates app.ticker.add(() => { // each frame we spin the bunny around a bit bunny.rotation += 0.01; }); }); ``` How to build Note that for most users you dont need to build this project. If all you want is to use PixiJS, then just download one of our prebuilt releases. Really the only time you should need to build PixiJS is if you are developing it. If you dont already have Node.js and NPM, go install them. Then, in the folder where you have cloned the repository, install the build dependencies using npm: sh npm install Then, to build the source, run: sh npm run dist This will create a minified version at dist/pixi.min.js and a non-minified version at dist/pixi.js with all the plugins in the PixiJS project. If there are specific plugins you dont want, say "interaction" or "extras", you can exclude those: sh npm run dist -- --exclude extras --exclude interaction You can also use the short-form -e: sh npm run dist -- -e extras -e interaction -e filters How to generate the documentation The docs can be generated using npm: sh npm run docs The documentation uses Jaguar.js and the jsdoc format, the configuration file can be found at scripts/jsdoc.conf.json License This content is released under the (http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) MIT License.