Built on top of d3.js and stack.gl, plotly.js is a high-level, declarative charting library. plotly.js ships with over 30 chart types, including scientific charts, 3D graphs, statistical charts, SVG maps, financial charts, and more. Contact us for Plotly.js consulting, dashboard development, application integration, and feature additions. Table of contents Quick start options Modules Building plotly.js Bugs and feature requests Documentation Contributing Community Clients for R, Python, Node, and MATLAB Creators Copyright and license Quick start options Install with npm bash npm install plotly.js-dist and import plotly.js as import Plotly from plotly.js-dist; or var Plotly = require(plotly.js-dist);. Use the plotly.js CDN hosted by Fastly ```html Latest compiled and minified plotly.js JavaScript OR use a specific plotly.js release (e.g. version 1.5.0) OR an un-minified version is also available ``` and use the Plotly object in the window scope. Download the latest release Latest Release on Github and use the plotly.js dist file(s). More info here. Read the Getting started page for more examples. Modules Starting in v1.15.0, plotly.js ships with several partial bundles (more info here). Starting in v1.39.0, plotly.js publishes distributed npm packages with no dependencies. For example, run npm install plotly.js-geo-dist and add import Plotly from plotly.js-geo-dist; to your code to start using the plotly.js geo package. If none of the distributed npm packages meet your needs, and you would like to manually pick which plotly.js modules to include, youll first need to run npm install plotly.js and then create a custom bundle by using plotly.js/lib/core, and loading only the trace types that you need (e.g. pie or choropleth). The recommended way to do this is by creating a bundling file. For example, in CommonJS: ```javascript // in custom-plotly.js var Plotly = require(plotly.js/lib/core); // Load in the trace types for pie, and choropleth Plotly.register([ require(plotly.js/lib/pie), require(plotly.js/lib/choropleth) ]); module.exports = Plotly; ``` Then elsewhere in your code: javascript var Plotly = require(./path/to/custom-plotly); To learn more about the plotly.js module architecture, refer to our modularizing monolithic JS projects post. Non-ascii characters Important: the plotly.js code base contains some non-ascii characters. Therefore, please make sure to set the charset attribute to "utf-8" in the script tag that imports your plotly.js bundle. For example: html <script src="my-plotly-bundle.js" charset="utf-8"></script> Building plotly.js Building instructions using webpack, browserify and other build frameworks are in BUILDING.md Bugs and feature requests Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the issues guidelines. Documentation Official plotly.js documentation is hosted on plot.ly/javascript. These pages are generated by the Plotly documentation repo built with Jekyll and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages. For more info about contributing to Plotly documentation, please read through contributing guidelines. You can also suggest new documentation examples by submitting a Codepen on community.plot.ly with tag plotly-js. Contributing Please read through our contributing guidelines. Included are directions for opening issues, using plotly.js in your project and notes on development. Community Follow @plotlygraphs on Twitter for the latest Plotly news. Follow @plotly_js on Twitter for plotly.js release updates. Implementation help may be found on community.plot.ly (tagged plotly-js) or on Stack Overflow (tagged plotly). Developers should use the keyword plotly on packages which modify or add to the functionality of plotly.js when distributing through npm. Direct developer email support can be purchased through a Plotly Support Plan. Versioning This project is maintained under the Semantic Versioning guidelines. See the Releases section of our GitHub project for changelogs for each release version of plotly.js. Clients for R, Python, Node, and MATLAB Open-source clients to the plotly.js APIs are available at these links: | | GitHub repo | Getting started | |---|--------|---------| |R / RStudio| ropensci/plotly | plot.ly/r/getting-started | |Python / Pandas / IPython notebook| plotly/plotly.py | plot.ly/python/getting-started | |MATLAB| plotly/matlab-api | plot.ly/matlab/getting-started | |node.js / Tonicdev / Jupyter notebook| plotly/plotly-notebook-js | | |node.js cloud client| plotly/plotly-nodejs | plot.ly/nodejs/getting-started | |Julia| plotly/Plotly.jl | plot.ly/julia/getting-started | plotly.js charts can also be created and saved online for free at plot.ly/create. Creators | | Github | Twitter | |---|--------|---------| |Alex C. Johnson| @alexcjohnson | | |Étienne Tétreault-Pinard| @etpinard | @etpinard | |Mikola Lysenko| @mikolalysenko | @MikolaLysenko | | Dmitry Yv. | @dy | @DimaYv| |Ricky Reusser| @rreusser | @rickyreusser | |Robert Monfera| @monfera | @monfera | |Nicolas Riesco| @n-riesco | | |Miklós Tusz| @mdtusz | @mdtusz| |Chelsea Douglas| @cldougl | | |Ben Postlethwaite| @bpostlethwaite | | |Chris Parmer| @chriddyp | | |Alex Vados| @alexander-daniel | | Copyright and license Code and documentation copyright 2018 Plotly, Inc. Code released under the MIT license. Docs released under the Creative Commons license.