PocketHub This repository contains the source code for the PocketHub Android app. This is the same repository as the now-defunct official GitHub Android app. Whats going on here? What happened to the old app? GitHub didnt want to maintain the app anymore, so its been released to the community and maintained as a public project. We are actively working towards a re-release to the Play Store, and this app will be the spiritual successor to the original GitHub app. Whats PocketHub? A name we decided that sounded good. Were a team of a few people helping organizing and prepare this. What about the other forks out there? Theyll remain forks. Obviously wed prefer them to focus on improving this project, but otherwise were not coordinating anything with them. Whats the immediate plan? Were shooting for an initial re-release just to get the app out there. There have been a significant number of changes since the app was last updated, with many functional and design changes that we need to make sure are good to go. Whats the less-immediate plan? After the initial release, well start working on giving this app a proper refresh. Much of the UI has already been touched up with elements of Material Design, but we have a long ways to go. Android has changed a lot since this was actively developed, and its time we take advantage of those changes. How can I help? Please see the issues section to report any bugs or feature requests and to see the list of known issues. We cant promise fast response times since we all have full time jobs of our own, but we will do our best to respond in a timely fashion. If youd like to contribute, please fork this repository and contribute back using pull requests. Any contributions, large or small, major features, bug fixes, additional language translations, unit/integration tests are welcomed and appreciated but will be thoroughly reviewed and discussed. Please read CONTRIBUTING.md first! Setup Environment Create a GitHub application (https://github.com/settings/applications/new) Set the following gradle properties via one of the ways described here: pockethub_github_client=your_application_client_id pockethub_github_secret=your_application_client_secret pockethub_github_callback=your_callback_url Callback URL The callback URL needs to be in the format your_schema://whatever_you_want Use a custom schema like myawesomeschema (not http or https) The schema must be lowercase (Reference) Legacy Notes If you had a current installation of the Github App installed and then enabled 2FA (2 Factor Authentication), then you must delete the Personal Access Token (PAT) from your configuration (via the web interface). A thanks to @landstander668 for posting this workaround. License Apache Version 2.0