Primer Primer is the design system that powers GitHub. Primer includes 23 packages that are grouped into 3 core meta-packages for easy install. Each package and meta-package is independently versioned and distributed via npm, so its easy to include all or part of Primer within your own project. Packages The Primer repo is managed as a monorepo that is composed of many npm packages. Core Packages | Package | Version | |---|---| | primer Includes all 23 packages | | | primer-core | | | primer-product | | | primer-marketing | | Install This repository is distributed with npm. After installing npm, you can install primer with this command. sh $ npm install --save primer Usage The source files included are written in Sass (SCSS). After installing with npm, you can add your projects node_modules directory to your Sass include paths (AKA load paths in Ruby), then import it like this: scss @import "primer/index.scss"; You can import individual Primer modules by installing them with npm, for instance: sh $ npm install --save primer-navigation Then, you would import the module with: scss @import "primer-navigation/index.scss"; Or, while youre figuring out which modules you need, you can import them directly from the primer modules directory like so: scss @import "primer/modules/primer-navigation/index.css"; Build For a compiled CSS version of this module, an npm script is included that will output a CSS version to build/build.css. The built CSS file is also included in the npm package. sh $ npm run build Releasing (Staff only) You can find docs about our release process in RELEASING.md. Documentation You can read more about primer in the docs. License MIT © GitHub