Prometheus Visit prometheus.io for the full documentation, examples and guides. Prometheus, a Cloud Native Computing Foundation project, is a systems and service monitoring system. It collects metrics from configured targets at given intervals, evaluates rule expressions, displays the results, and can trigger alerts if some condition is observed to be true. Prometheus main distinguishing features as compared to other monitoring systems are: a multi-dimensional data model (timeseries defined by metric name and set of key/value dimensions) a flexible query language to leverage this dimensionality no dependency on distributed storage; single server nodes are autonomous timeseries collection happens via a pull model over HTTP pushing timeseries is supported via an intermediary gateway targets are discovered via service discovery or static configuration multiple modes of graphing and dashboarding support support for hierarchical and horizontal federation Architecture overview Install There are various ways of installing Prometheus. Precompiled binaries Precompiled binaries for released versions are available in the download section on prometheus.io. Using the latest production release binary is the recommended way of installing Prometheus. See the Installing chapter in the documentation for all the details. Debian packages are available. Docker images Docker images are available on Quay.io. You can launch a Prometheus container for trying it out with $ docker run --name prometheus -d -p 127.0.0.1:9090:9090 quay.io/prometheus/prometheus Prometheus will now be reachable at http://localhost:9090/. Building from source To build Prometheus from the source code yourself you need to have a working Go environment with version 1.10 or greater installed. You can directly use the go tool to download and install the prometheus and promtool binaries into your GOPATH: $ go get github.com/prometheus/prometheus/cmd/... $ prometheus --config.file=your_config.yml You can also clone the repository yourself and build using make: $ mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/prometheus $ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/prometheus $ git clone https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus.git $ cd prometheus $ make build $ ./prometheus --config.file=your_config.yml The Makefile provides several targets: build: build the prometheus and promtool binaries test: run the tests test-short: run the short tests format: format the source code vet: check the source code for common errors assets: rebuild the static assets docker: build a docker container for the current HEAD More information The source code is periodically indexed: Prometheus Core. You will find a Travis CI configuration in .travis.yml. See the Community page for how to reach the Prometheus developers and users on various communication channels. Contributing Refer to CONTRIBUTING.md License Apache License 2.0, see LICENSE.