Pug Full documentation is at pugjs.org Pug is a high-performance template engine heavily influenced by Haml and implemented with JavaScript for Node.js and browsers. For bug reports, feature requests and questions, open an issue. For discussion join the chat room. You can test drive Pug online here. Rename from "Jade" This project was formerly known as "Jade". However, it was revealed to us that "Jade" is a registered trademark; as a result, a rename was needed. After some discussion among the maintainers, "Pug" was chosen as the new name for this project. As of version 2, "pug" is the official package name. If your package or app currently uses jade, dont worry: we have secured permissions to continue to occupy that package name, although all new versions will be released under pug. Before the renaming, work had already begun on “Jade 2.0.0”. Therefore, the rename to Pug coincided with the major version bump. As a result, upgrading from Jade to Pug will be the same process as upgrading any other package with a major version bump. The syntax of Pug has several differences, deprecations, and removals compared to its predecessor. These differences are documented in #2305. The website and documentation for Pug are still being updated. But if you are new to Pug, you should get started with the new syntax and install the Pug package from npm. Installation Package To use Pug in your own JavaScript projects: bash $ npm install pug Command Line After installing the latest version of Node.js, install with: bash $ npm install pug-cli -g and run with bash $ pug --help Syntax Pug is a clean, whitespace sensitive syntax for writing HTML. Here is a simple example: pug doctype html html(lang="en") head title= pageTitle script(type=text/javascript). if (foo) bar(1 + 5) body h1 Pug - node template engine #container.col if youAreUsingPug p You are amazing else p Get on it! p. Pug is a terse and simple templating language with a strong focus on performance and powerful features. Pug transforms the above to: html <!DOCTYPE html> <html lang="en"> <head> <title>Pug</title> <script type="text/javascript"> if (foo) bar(1 + 5) </script> </head> <body> <h1>Pug - node template engine</h1> <div id="container" class="col"> <p>You are amazing</p> <p>Pug is a terse and simple templating language with a strong focus on performance and powerful features.</p> </div> </body> </html> API For full API, see pugjs.org/api/reference.html ```js var pug = require(pug); // compile var fn = pug.compile(string of pug, options); var html = fn(locals); // render var html = pug.render(string of pug, merge(options, locals)); // renderFile var html = pug.renderFile(filename.pug, merge(options, locals)); ``` Options filename Used in exceptions, and required when using includes compileDebug When false no debug instrumentation is compiled pretty Add pretty-indentation whitespace to output (false by default) Browser Support The latest version of pug can be downloaded for the browser in standalone form. It only supports the very latest browsers, though, and is a large file. It is recommended that you pre-compile your pug templates to JavaScript. To compile a template for use on the client using the command line, do: bash $ pug --client --no-debug filename.pug which will produce filename.js containing the compiled template. Tutorials cssdeck interactive Pug syntax tutorial cssdeck interactive Pug logic tutorial Pug について。 (A Japanese Tutorial) Implementations in other languages Ports in other languages Ports to other languages, with very close syntax: PHP Java Python Ruby C# (ASP.NET Core) Equivalents in other languages Templates engines for other languages with a different syntax, but a similar philosophy: Scaml for Scala Slim for Ruby (should not be confused with Slim PHP framework) HAML for Ruby Framework implementations/adapters Embedded view engines for frameworks: Laravel Symfony Phalcon CodeIgniter Yii 2 Slim 3 Silex (implementation example) Lumen Rails CMS plugins WordPress Additional Resources Emacs Mode Vim Syntax TextMate Bundle Coda/SubEtha syntax Mode html2pug converter pug2php converter Pug Server Ideal for building local prototypes apart from any application cache-pug-templates Cache Pug templates for Lad/Koa/Express/Connect with Redis Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] License MIT