Pure A set of small, responsive CSS modules that you can use in every web project. http://purecss.io/ Use From the CDN: html <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/purecss@1.0.0/build/pure-min.css"> Note: You can customize which Pure modules you need. Install with Bower: shell $ bower install --save pure Install with NPM: shell $ npm install purecss Features Pure is meant to be a starting point for every website or web app. We take care of all the CSS work that every site needs, without making it look cookie-cutter: A responsive grid that can be customized to your needs. A solid base built on Normalize.css to fix cross-browser compatibility issues. Consistently styled buttons that work with <a> and <button> elements. Styles for vertical and horizontal menus, including support for dropdown menus. Useful form alignments that look great on all screen sizes. Various common table styles. An extremely minimalist look that is super-easy to customize. Responsive by default, with a non-responsive option. Extremely small file size: 4.5KB minified + gzip. Get Started To get started using Pure, go to the Pure CSS website. The website has extensive documentation and examples to help you start using Pure. You can include the Pure CSS file in your project by fetching it from Yahoos CDN: html <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/purecss@1.0.0/build/pure-min.css"> You can also install Pure using Bower, using the following command: shell $ bower install --save pure Or you can install Pure using NPM: shell $ npm install purecss Build From Source Optionally, you can build Pure from its source on Github. To do this, youll need to have Node.js and npm installed. We use Grunt to build Pure. shell $ git clone git@github.com:pure-css/pure.git $ cd pure $ npm install $ grunt Build Files Now, all Pure CSS files should be built into the pure/build/ directory. All files that are in this build directory are also available on the CDN. The naming conventions of the files in the build/ directory follow these rules: [module]-core.css: The minimal set of styles, usually structural, that provide the base on which the rest of the modules styles build. [module]-nr.css: Rollup of [module]-core.css + [module].css + [module]-[feature].css from the src/[module]/ dir. This is the non-responsive version of a module. [module].css: Rollup of [module]-nr.css + [module]-r.css from the build/ dir. This is the responsive version of a module. *-min.css: A minified file version of the files of the same name. pure.css: A rollup of all [module].css files in the build/ dir. This is a responsive roll-up of everything, non-minified. Note: does not contain responsive grids with @media queries. pure-min.css: Minified version of pure.css that should be used in production. pure-nr.css: A Rollup of all modules without @media queries. This is a non-responsive roll-up of everything, non-minified. pure-nr-min.css: Minified version of pure-nr.css that should be used in production. grids-responsive.css: Unminified version of Pures grid stylesheet which includes @media queries. grids-responsive-min.css: Minified version of grids-responsive.css that should be used in production. Browser Support and Testing Pure is tested and works in: IE 8+ Latest Stable: Firefox, Chrome, Safari iOS 6-8 Android 4.x Docs and Website Pures website is also open source, so please open any issues or pull requests for the docs and website over at the pure-site repository. Contributing See the CONTRIBUTING file for information on how to contribute to Pure. License This software is free to use under the Yahoo! Inc. BSD license. See the LICENSE file for license text and copyright information.