Quasar Framework Build responsive websites, PWAs, hybrid mobile Apps (that look native!) and Electron apps using same code, powered with Vue. Please submit a PR to https://github.com/quasarframework/quasar-awesome with your website/app/Quasar tutorial/video etc. Thank you! Supporting Quasar Quasar Framework is an MIT-licensed open source project. Its ongoing development is made possible thanks to the support by these awesome backers. If youd like to join them, check out Quasar Frameworks Patreon campaign. Proudly sponsored by: Documentation Head on to the Quasar Framework official website: http://quasar-framework.org Stay in Touch For latest releases and announcements, follow on Twitter: @quasarframework Community Forum Head on to the official community forum: http://forum.quasar-framework.org Quasar Repositories Quasar Framework Quasar CLI Quasar Play App Contributing Im excited if you want to contribute to Quasar under any form (report bugs, write a plugin, fix an issue, write a new feature). Issue Reporting Guidelines Please use the appropriate Github repo to report issues. See "Related Components" above. For example, a bug related to CLI should be reported to the CLI repo, one related to build issues to Quasar Framework Templates repo and so on. The issue list of the repository is exclusively for bug reports and feature requests. For anything else please use the Community Forum. Try to search for your issue, it may have already been fixed in the development branch or it may have a resolution. Check if the issue is reproducible with the latest stable version of Quasar. If you are using a pre-release, please indicate the specific version you are using. It is required that you clearly describe the steps necessary to reproduce the issue you are running into. Issues with no clear repro steps will not be triaged. If an issue labeled "need repro" receives no further input from the issue author for more than 5 days, it will be closed. If your issue is resolved but still open, dont hesitate to close it. In case you found a solution by yourself, it could be helpful to explain how you fixed it. Read more here. Semver Until Quasar reaches a 1.0 release (soon), breaking changes will be released with a new minor version. For example 0.8.1, and 0.8.4 will have the same API, but 0.9.0 will have breaking changes. License Copyright (c) 2016-present Razvan Stoenescu MIT License