Quick is a behavior-driven development framework for Swift and Objective-C. Inspired by RSpec, Specta, and Ginkgo. ```swift // Swift import Quick import Nimble class TableOfContentsSpec: QuickSpec { override func spec() { describe("the Documentation directory") { it("has everything you need to get started") { let sections = Directory("Documentation").sections expect(sections).to(contain("Organized Tests with Quick Examples and Example Groups")) expect(sections).to(contain("Installing Quick")) } context("if it doesnt have what youre looking for") { it("needs to be updated") { let you = You(awesome: true) expect{you.submittedAnIssue}.toEventually(beTruthy()) } } } } } ``` Nimble Quick comes together with Nimble — a matcher framework for your tests. You can learn why XCTAssert() statements make your expectations unclear and how to fix that using Nimble assertions here. Swift Version Certain versions of Quick and Nimble only support certain versions of Swift. Depending on which version of Swift your project uses, you should use specific versions of Quick and Nimble. Use the table below to determine which versions of Quick and Nimble are compatible with your project. |Swift version |Quick version |Nimble version | |:--------------------|:---------------|:--------------| |Swift 3 |v1.0.0 or later |v5.0.0 or later| |Swift 2.2 / Swift 2.3|v0.9.3 |v4.1.0 | Documentation All documentation can be found in the Documentation folder, including detailed installation instructions for CocoaPods, Carthage, Git submodules, and more. For example, you can install Quick and Nimble using CocoaPods by adding the following to your Podfile: ```rb Podfile use_frameworks! target "MyApp" do # Normal libraries abstract_target Tests do inherit! :search_paths target "MyAppTests" target "MyAppUITests" pod Quick pod Nimble end end ``` Projects using Quick Over ten-thousand apps use either Quick and Nimble however, as they are not included in the app binary, neither appear in “Top Used Libraries” blog posts. Therefore, it would be greatly appreciated to remind contributors that their efforts are valued by compiling a list of organizations and projects that use them. Does your organization or project use Quick and Nimble? If yes, please add your project to the list. Who uses Quick Similar to projects using Quick, it would be nice to hear why people use Quick and Nimble. Are there features you love? Are there features that are just okay? Are there some features we have that no one uses? Have something positive to say about Quick (or Nimble)? If yes, provide a testimonial here. License Apache 2.0 license. See the LICENSE file for details.