What Is It? Upterm is looking for maintainers Upterm (formerly Black Screen) is an IDE in the world of terminals. Strictly speaking, its both a terminal emulator and an interactive shell based on Electron. Autocompletion Upterm shows the autocompletion box as you type and tries to be smart about what to suggest. Often you can find useful additional information on the right side of the autocompletion, e.g. expanded alias value, command descriptions, value of the previous directory (cd -), etc. Compatibility All command-line programs (including emacs, ssh and vim) should work as expected. If you experience any glitches, please create an issue. Install MacOS bash brew cask install upterm Beware that the version in Homebrew might be outdated. Visit the releases page to download the latest version. Linux (Arch Linux) bash yaourt -S upterm As with macOSs brew install, the AUR may also be outdated. To install the latest version, refer to the install guide for Linux (Others). Linux (Others) Download and open the AppImage file from the releases page. Windows Windows is not officially supported at the moment. The Windows Support Issue explains potential experimental support. Technologies Electron TypeScript ReactJS More Screenshots Development Setup bash git clone https://github.com/railsware/upterm.git && cd upterm npm start Instructions are available for debugging the application in Visual Studio Code. To create a standalone application, execute npm run pack in the project directory. Contributing See Contributing Guide. License The MIT License.