Animated-tab-bar About This project is maintained by Ramotion, Inc. We specialize in the designing and coding of custom UI for Mobile Apps and Websites. Looking for developers for your project? This project is maintained by Ramotion, Inc. We specialize in the designing and coding of custom UI for Mobile Apps and Websites. The iPhone mockup available here. Try this UI control in action Screencast from our Demo Requirements iOS 9.0+ xCode 9 Installation Just add the RAMAnimatedTabBarController folder to your project. or use CocoaPods with Podfile: ruby pod RAMAnimatedTabBarController or Carthage users can simply add to their Cartfile: ``` github "Ramotion/animated-tab-bar" ``` Usage Create a new UITabBarController in your storyboard or nib. Set the class of the UITabBarController to RAMAnimatedTabBarController in your Storyboard or nib. For each UITabBarItem, set the class to RAMAnimatedTabBarItem. Add a custom image icon for each RAMAnimatedTabBarItem Add animation for each RAMAnimatedTabBarItem : drag and drop an NSObject item into your ViewController set its class to ANIMATION_CLASS (where ANIMATION_CLASS is the class name of the animation you want to use) connect the outlet animation in RAMAnimatedTabBarItem to your ANIMATION_CLASS Demonstration video for step 5 Included Animations RAMBounceAnimation RAMLeftRotationAnimation RAMRightRotationAnimation RAMFlipLeftTransitionItemAnimations RAMFlipRightTransitionItemAnimations RAMFlipTopTransitionItemAnimations RAMFlipBottomTransitionItemAnimations RAMFrameItemAnimation RAMFumeAnimation Creating Custom Animations Create a new class which inherits from RAMItemAnimation: swift class NewAnimation : RAMItemAnimation 2. Implement the methods in RAMItemAnimationProtocol: swift // method call when Tab Bar Item is selected override func playAnimation(icon: UIImageView, textLabel: UILabel) { // add animation } swift // method call when Tab Bar Item is deselected override func deselectAnimation(icon: UIImageView, textLabel: UILabel, defaultTextColor: UIColor, defaultIconColor: UIColor) { // add animation } swift // method call when TabBarController did load override func selectedState(icon: UIImageView, textLabel: UILabel) { // set selected state } Example: ``` swift import RAMAnimatedTabBarController class RAMBounceAnimation : RAMItemAnimation { override func playAnimation(_ icon: UIImageView, textLabel: UILabel) { playBounceAnimation(icon) textLabel.textColor = textSelectedColor } override func deselectAnimation(_ icon: UIImageView, textLabel: UILabel, defaultTextColor: UIColor, defaultIconColor: UIColor) { textLabel.textColor = defaultTextColor } override func selectedState(_ icon: UIImageView, textLabel: UILabel) { textLabel.textColor = textSelectedColor } func playBounceAnimation(_ icon : UIImageView) { let bounceAnimation = CAKeyframeAnimation(keyPath: "transform.scale") bounceAnimation.values = [1.0 ,1.4, 0.9, 1.15, 0.95, 1.02, 1.0] bounceAnimation.duration = TimeInterval(duration) bounceAnimation.calculationMode = kCAAnimationCubic icon.layer.add(bounceAnimation, forKey: "bounceAnimation") } } ``` This library is a part of a selection of our best UI open-source projects. Get the Showroom App for iOS to give it a try Try this UI library in our iOS app. Contact us if you interested in hiring the team. Follow us for the latest updates