ramsey/uuid NOTICE: Formerly known as rhumsaa/uuid, The package and namespace names have changed to ramsey/uuid and Ramsey\Uuid, respectively. ramsey/uuid is a PHP 5.4+ library for generating and working with RFC 4122 version 1, 3, 4, and 5 universally unique identifiers (UUID). This project adheres to a Contributor Code of Conduct. By participating in this project and its community, you are expected to uphold this code. About From Wikipedia: The intent of UUIDs is to enable distributed systems to uniquely identify information without significant central coordination. In this context the word unique should be taken to mean "practically unique" rather than "guaranteed unique". Since the identifiers have a finite size, it is possible for two differing items to share the same identifier. The identifier size and generation process need to be selected so as to make this sufficiently improbable in practice. Anyone can create a UUID and use it to identify something with reasonable confidence that the same identifier will never be unintentionally created by anyone to identify something else. Information labeled with UUIDs can therefore be later combined into a single database without needing to resolve identifier (ID) conflicts. Much inspiration for this library came from the Java and Python UUID libraries. Installation The preferred method of installation is via Packagist and Composer. Run the following command to install the package and add it as a requirement to your projects composer.json: bash composer require ramsey/uuid Upgrading from 2.x to 3.x While we have made significant internal changes to the library, we have made every effort to ensure a seamless upgrade path from the 2.x series of this library to 3.x. One major breaking change is the transition from the Rhumsaa root namespace to Ramsey. In most cases, all you will need is to change the namespace to Ramsey in your code, and everything will "just work." Here are full details on the breaking changes to the public API of this library: All namespace references of Rhumsaa have changed to Ramsey. Simply change the namespace to Ramsey in your code and everything should work. The console application has moved to ramsey/uuid-console. If using the console functionality, use Composer to require ramsey/uuid-console. The Doctrine field type mapping has moved to ramsey/uuid-doctrine. If using the Doctrine functionality, use Composer to require ramsey/uuid-doctrine. What to do if you see a "rhumsaa/uuid is abandoned" message When installing your projects dependencies using Composer, you might see the following message: Package rhumsaa/uuid is abandoned, you should avoid using it. Use ramsey/uuid instead. Dont panic. Simply execute the following commands with Composer: bash composer remove rhumsaa/uuid composer require ramsey/uuid=^2.9 After doing so, you will have the latest ramsey/uuid package in the 2.x series, and there will be no need to modify any code; the namespace in the 2.x series is still Rhumsaa. Requirements Some methods in this library have requirements due to integer size restrictions on 32-bit and 64-bit builds of PHP. A 64-bit build of PHP and the Moontoast\Math library are recommended. However, this library is designed to work on 32-bit builds of PHP without Moontoast\Math, with some degraded functionality. Please check the API documentation for more information. If a particular requirement is not present, then an UnsatisfiedDependencyException is thrown, allowing one to catch a bad call in an environment where the call is not supported and gracefully degrade. API documentation The latest class API documentation is available online. This project uses ApiGen to generate this documentation. To generate the documentation on your own, install dev dependencies and run the following command from the root of the project: composer build-docs This will generate documentation in the build/apidocs/ folder. Examples See the cookbook on the wiki for more examples and approaches to specific use-cases. ```php <?php require vendor/autoload.php; use Ramsey\Uuid\Uuid; use Ramsey\Uuid\Exception\UnsatisfiedDependencyException; try { // Generate a version 1 (time-based) UUID object $uuid1 = Uuid::uuid1(); echo $uuid1->toString() . "\n"; // i.e. e4eaaaf2-d142-11e1-b3e4-080027620cdd // Generate a version 3 (name-based and hashed with MD5) UUID object $uuid3 = Uuid::uuid3(Uuid::NAMESPACE_DNS, php.net); echo $uuid3->toString() . "\n"; // i.e. 11a38b9a-b3da-360f-9353-a5a725514269 // Generate a version 4 (random) UUID object $uuid4 = Uuid::uuid4(); echo $uuid4->toString() . "\n"; // i.e. 25769c6c-d34d-4bfe-ba98-e0ee856f3e7a // Generate a version 5 (name-based and hashed with SHA1) UUID object $uuid5 = Uuid::uuid5(Uuid::NAMESPACE_DNS, php.net); echo $uuid5->toString() . "\n"; // i.e. c4a760a8-dbcf-5254-a0d9-6a4474bd1b62 } catch (UnsatisfiedDependencyException $e) { // Some dependency was not met. Either the method cannot be called on a // 32-bit system, or it can, but it relies on Moontoast\Math to be present. echo Caught exception: . $e->getMessage() . "\n"; } ``` Contributing Contributions are welcome! Please read CONTRIBUTING for details. Copyright and license The ramsey/uuid library is copyright © Ben Ramsey and licensed for use under the MIT License (MIT). Please see LICENSE for more information.