RxSwift: ReactiveX for Swift RxSwift 3.x / Swift 3.x can be found in rxswift-3.0 branch. Rx is a generic abstraction of computation expressed through Observable<Element> interface. This is a Swift version of Rx. It tries to port as many concepts from the original version as possible, but some concepts were adapted for more pleasant and performant integration with iOS/macOS environment. Cross platform documentation can be found on ReactiveX.io. Like the original Rx, its intention is to enable easy composition of asynchronous operations and event/data streams. KVO observing, async operations and streams are all unified under abstraction of sequence. This is the reason why Rx is so simple, elegant and powerful. I came here because I want to ... ... understand why use rx? the basics, getting started with RxSwift traits - what are Single, Completable, Maybe, Driver, ControlProperty, and Variable ... and why do they exist? testing tips and common errors debugging the math behind Rx what are hot and cold observable sequences? ... install Integrate RxSwift/RxCocoa with my app. Installation Guide ... hack around with the example app. Running Example App with operators in playgrounds. Playgrounds ... interact All of this is great, but it would be nice to talk with other people using RxSwift and exchange experiences. Join Slack Channel Report a problem using the library. Open an Issue With Bug Template Request a new feature. Open an Issue With Feature Request Template Help out Check out contribution guide ... compare with other libraries. ... find compatible libraries from RxSwiftCommunity. Pods using RxSwift. ... see the broader vision Does this exist for Android? RxJava Where is all of this going, what is the future, what about reactive architectures, how do you design entire apps this way? Cycle.js - this is javascript, but RxJS is javascript version of Rx. Usage Heres an example In Action Define search for GitHub repositories ... let searchResults = searchBar.rx.text.orEmpty .throttle(0.3, scheduler: MainScheduler.instance) .distinctUntilChanged() .flatMapLatest { query -> Observable<[Repository]> in if query.isEmpty { return .just([]) } return searchGitHub(query) .catchErrorJustReturn([]) } .observeOn(MainScheduler.instance) ... then bind the results to your tableview searchResults .bind(to: tableView.rx.items(cellIdentifier: "Cell")) { (index, repository: Repository, cell) in cell.textLabel?.text = repository.name cell.detailTextLabel?.text = repository.url } .disposed(by: disposeBag) Requirements Xcode 9.0 Swift 4.0 Swift 3.x (use rxswift-3.0 branch instead) Swift 2.3 (use rxswift-2.0 branch instead) Installation Rx doesnt contain any external dependencies. These are currently the supported options: Manual Open Rx.xcworkspace, choose RxExample and hit run. This method will build everything and run the sample app CocoaPods Tested with pod --version: 1.3.1 ```ruby Podfile use_frameworks! target YOUR_TARGET_NAME do pod RxSwift, ~> 4.0 pod RxCocoa, ~> 4.0 end RxTest and RxBlocking make the most sense in the context of unit/integration tests target YOUR_TESTING_TARGET do pod RxBlocking, ~> 4.0 pod RxTest, ~> 4.0 end ``` Replace YOUR_TARGET_NAME and then, in the Podfile directory, type: bash $ pod install Carthage Tested with carthage version: 0.26.2 Add this to Cartfile github "ReactiveX/RxSwift" ~> 4.0 bash $ carthage update Swift Package Manager Tested with swift build --version: Swift 4.0.0-dev (swiftpm-13126) Create a Package.swift file. ```swift // swift-tools-version:4.0 import PackageDescription let package = Package( name: "RxTestProject", dependencies: [ .package(url: "https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxSwift.git", "4.0.0" ..< "5.0.0") ], targets: [ .target(name: "RxTestProject", dependencies: ["RxSwift", "RxCocoa"]) ] ) ``` bash $ swift build To build or test a module with RxTest dependency, set TEST=1. (RxSwift >= 3.4.2) bash $ TEST=1 swift test Manually using git submodules Add RxSwift as a submodule bash $ git submodule add git@github.com:ReactiveX/RxSwift.git Drag Rx.xcodeproj into Project Navigator Go to Project > Targets > Build Phases > Link Binary With Libraries, click + and select RxSwift-[Platform] and RxCocoa-[Platform] targets References http://reactivex.io/ Reactive Extensions GitHub (GitHub) RxSwift RayWenderlich.com Book Boxue.io RxSwift Online Course (Chinese 🇨🇳) Erik Meijer (Wikipedia) Expert to Expert: Brian Beckman and Erik Meijer - Inside the .NET Reactive Framework (Rx) (video) Reactive Programming Overview (Jafar Husain from Netflix) Subject/Observer is Dual to Iterator (paper) Rx standard sequence operators visualized (visualization tool) Haskell