RxJS: Reactive Extensions For JavaScript RxJS 6 Stable MIGRATION AND RELEASE INFORMATION: Find out how up update to v6, automatically update your TypeScript code, and more! Current home is MIGRATION.md FOR V 5.X PLEASE GO TO THE 5.0 BRANCH Reactive Extensions Library for JavaScript. This is a rewrite of Reactive-Extensions/RxJS and is the latest production-ready version of RxJS. This rewrite is meant to have better performance, better modularity, better debuggable call stacks, while staying mostly backwards compatible, with some breaking changes that reduce the API surface. Apache 2.0 License Code of Conduct Contribution Guidelines Maintainer Guidelines Creating Operators API Documentation (WIP) Versions In This Repository master - This all of the current, unreleased work, which is against v6 of RxJS right now stable - This is the branch for the latest version youd get if you do npm install rxjs Important By contributing or commenting on issues in this repository, whether youve read them or not, youre agreeing to the Contributor Code of Conduct. Much like traffic laws, ignorance doesnt grant you immunity. Installation and Usage ES6 via npm sh npm install rxjs To import only what you need by patching (this is useful for size-sensitive bundling): ```js import { Observable, Subject, ReplaySubject, from, of, range } from rxjs; import { map, filter, switchMap } from rxjs/operators; range(1, 200) .pipe(filter(x => x % 2 === 1), map(x => x + x)) .subscribe(x => console.log(x)); ``` Alternatively, you can use the built-in pipe method on Observables. See pipeable operators for more information. CommonJS via npm To install this library for CommonJS (CJS) usage, use the following command: sh npm install rxjs (Note: destructuring available in Node 8+) ```js const { Observable, Subject, ReplaySubject, from, of, range } = require(rxjs); const { map, filter, switchMap } = require(rxjs/operators); range(1, 200) .pipe(filter(x => x % 2 === 1), map(x => x + x)) .subscribe(x => console.log(x)); ``` CDN For CDN, you can use unpkg: https://unpkg.com/rxjs/bundles/rxjs.umd.min.js The global namespace for rxjs is rxjs: ```js const { Observable, Subject, ReplaySubject, from, of, range } = rxjs; const { map, filter, switchMap } = rxjs.operators; range(1, 200) .pipe(filter(x => x % 2 === 1), map(x => x + x)) .subscribe(x => console.log(x)); ``` Goals Smaller overall bundles sizes Provide better performance than preceding versions of RxJS To model/follow the Observable Spec Proposal to the observable. Provide more modular file structure in a variety of formats Provide more debuggable call stacks than preceding versions of RxJS Building/Testing npm run build_all - builds everything npm test - runs tests npm run info will list available scripts (there are a lot LOL) Performance Tests Run npm run build_perf or npm run perf to run the performance tests with protractor. Run npm run perf_micro [operator] to run micro performance test benchmarking operator. Adding documentation RxNext uses ESDoc to generate API documentation. Refer to ESDocs documentation for syntax. Run npm run build_docs to generate. At the moment we are trying to improve the documentation. For this purpose the Documentation is in a separate GitHub Repository. For a quick instruction take a look at the documentation guidelines. We are really happy about any type of contributions! Generating PNG marble diagrams The script npm run tests2png requires some native packages installed locally: imagemagick, graphicsmagick, and ghostscript. For Mac OS X with Homebrew: brew install imagemagick brew install graphicsmagick brew install ghostscript You may need to install the Ghostscript fonts manually: Download the tarball from the gs-fonts project mkdir -p /usr/local/share/ghostscript && tar zxvf /path/to/ghostscript-fonts.tar.gz -C /usr/local/share/ghostscript For Debian Linux: sudo add-apt-repository ppa:dhor/myway apt-get install imagemagick apt-get install graphicsmagick apt-get install ghostscript For Windows and other Operating Systems, check the download instructions here: http://imagemagick.org http://www.graphicsmagick.org http://www.ghostscript.com/