Reaction Commerce Reaction is an event-driven, real-time reactive commerce platform built with JavaScript (ES6). It plays nicely with npm, Docker, and React. Features Reactions out-of-the-box core features include: Drag-and-drop merchandising Order processing Payments Shipping Taxes Discounts Analytics Integration with dozens of third-party apps See full list of features on our Roadmap Since anything in our codebase can be extended, overwritten, or installed as a package, you may also develop, scale, and customize anything on our platform. Getting started Requirements Reaction requires Meteor, Git, MongoDB, OS-specific build tools and optionally, ImageMagick. For step-by-step instructions, check out this page. Install and create your first store Install the Reaction CLI to get started with Reaction: bash npm install -g reaction-cli Create your store: bash reaction init cd reaction reaction You can also run the app locally using docker-compose by running: sh docker-compose up This will use the docker-compose.yml file. This can be used to evaluate the app locally (on all Operating Systems supported by Docker), however, for active local development or customization, it is better to run reaction outside of Docker for faster app builds. Learn more on how to configure your project. Get involved Documentation and tools Developer documentation API documentation Reaction GraphQL API server base Reaction sample data Get help Reaction Commerce Gitter chat Reaction Commerce forum Learn Reaction Commerce engineering blog posts Customization themes & plugins tutorial Reaction Commerce YouTube videos Contact the team Security reporting instructions: Report security vulnerabilities to security@reactioncommerce.com. Reaction Action: RSVP for the monthly Reaction Action livestreams. Contribute :star: Star us on GitHub — it helps! We love your pull requests! Check our our Good First Issue and Help Wanted tags for good issues to tackle. Pull requests should: Pass linting tests: Run npm run lint to make sure youre following the Reaction Code Style Guide. Pass acceptance and unit tests: Run reaction test to confirm both acceptance tests and unit tests are passing Have a link to the issue. Get more details in our Contributing Guide. Deploy on Docker We ensure that all releases are deployable as Docker containers. While we dont regularly test other methods of deployment, our community has documented deployment strategies for AWS, Digital Ocean, and Galaxy. For an introduction to Docker deployment, the Reaction deployment guide has detailed examples. Weve included a demo docker-compose file in the repository. It shows how to use mongo as a service with your Reaction app. It can be used to do a demo of your production build by running this command: sh docker-compose -f docker-compose-demo.yml up You can also use this file as starting point for your production docker-compose setup. License Copyright © GNU General Public License v3.0