RxAndroid: Reactive Extensions for Android Android specific bindings for RxJava 2. This module adds the minimum classes to RxJava that make writing reactive components in Android applications easy and hassle-free. More specifically, it provides a Scheduler that schedules on the main thread or any given Looper. Communication Since RxAndroid is part of the RxJava family the communication channels are similar: Google Group: RxJava Twitter: @RxJava StackOverflow: rx-android GitHub Issues Binaries groovy implementation io.reactivex.rxjava2:rxandroid:2.0.2 // Because RxAndroid releases are few and far between, it is recommended you also // explicitly depend on RxJavas latest version for bug fixes and new features. // (see https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava/releases for latest 2.x.x version) implementation io.reactivex.rxjava2:rxjava:2.x.x RxAndroid: RxJava: Additional binaries and dependency information for can be found at http://search.maven.org. Build To build: bash $ git clone git@github.com:ReactiveX/RxAndroid.git $ cd RxAndroid/ $ ./gradlew build Further details on building can be found on the RxJava Getting Started page of the wiki. Sample usage A sample project which provides runnable code examples that demonstrate uses of the classes in this project is available in the sample-app/ folder. Observing on the main thread One of the most common operations when dealing with asynchronous tasks on Android is to observe the tasks result or outcome on the main thread. Using vanilla Android, this would typically be accomplished with an AsyncTask. With RxJava instead you would declare your Observable to be observed on the main thread: java Observable.just("one", "two", "three", "four", "five") .subscribeOn(Schedulers.newThread()) .observeOn(AndroidSchedulers.mainThread()) .subscribe(/* an Observer */); This will execute the Observable on a new thread, and emit results through onNext on the main thread. Observing on arbitrary loopers The previous sample is merely a specialization of a more general concept: binding asynchronous communication to an Android message loop, or Looper. In order to observe an Observable on an arbitrary Looper, create an associated Scheduler by calling AndroidSchedulers.from: java Looper backgroundLooper = // ... Observable.just("one", "two", "three", "four", "five") .observeOn(AndroidSchedulers.from(backgroundLooper)) .subscribe(/* an Observer */) This will execute the Observable on a new thread and emit results through onNext on whatever thread is running backgroundLooper. Bugs and Feedback For bugs, feature requests, and discussion please use GitHub Issues. For general usage questions please use the mailing list or StackOverflow. LICENSE Copyright 2015 The RxAndroid authors Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.