Were moving! react-router-redux is going to live alongside react-router. In fact, its already set up over there. Go take a look! This repo is for react-router-redux 4.x, which is only compatible with react-router 2.x and 3.x The next version of react-router-redux will be 5.0.0 and will be compatible with react-router 4.x. It is currently being actively developed over there. Feel free to help out! react-router-redux Keep your router in sync with application state :sparkles: Formerly known as redux-simple-router Youre a smart person. You use Redux to manage your application state. You use React Router to do routing. All is good. But the two libraries dont coordinate. You want to do time travel with your application state, but React Router doesnt navigate between pages when you replay actions. It controls an important part of application state: the URL. This library helps you keep that bit of state in sync with your Redux store. We keep a copy of the current location hidden in state. When you rewind your application state with a tool like Redux DevTools, that state change is propagated to React Router so it can adjust the component tree accordingly. You can jump around in state, rewinding, replaying, and resetting as much as youd like, and this library will ensure the two stay in sync at all times. This library is not necessary for using Redux together with React Router. You can use the two together just fine without any additional libraries. It is useful if you care about recording, persisting, and replaying user actions, using time travel. If you dont care about these features, just use Redux and React Router directly. Installation npm install --save react-router-redux How It Works This library allows you to use React Routers APIs as they are documented. And, you can use redux like you normally would, with a single app state. The library simply enhances a history instance to allow it to synchronize any changes it receives into application state. history + store (redux) → react-router-redux → enhanced history → react-router Tutorial Lets take a look at a simple example. ```js import React from react import ReactDOM from react-dom import { createStore, combineReducers } from redux import { Provider } from react-redux import { Router, Route, browserHistory } from react-router import { syncHistoryWithStore, routerReducer } from react-router-redux import reducers from /reducers // Add the reducer to your store on the routing key const store = createStore( combineReducers({ ...reducers, routing: routerReducer }) ) // Create an enhanced history that syncs navigation events with the store const history = syncHistoryWithStore(browserHistory, store) ReactDOM.render( { / Tell the Router to use our enhanced history / } , document.getElementById(mount) ) ``` Now any time you navigate, which can come from pressing browser buttons or navigating in your application code, the enhanced history will first pass the new location through the Redux store and then on to React Router to update the component tree. If you time travel, it will also pass the new state to React Router to update the component tree again. How do I watch for navigation events, such as for analytics? Simply listen to the enhanced history via history.listen. This takes in a function that will receive a location any time the store updates. This includes any time travel activity performed on the store. ```js const history = syncHistoryWithStore(browserHistory, store) history.listen(location => analyticsService.track(location.pathname)) ``` For other kinds of events in your system, you can use middleware on your Redux store like normal to watch any action that is dispatched to the store. What if I use Immutable.js or another state wrapper with my Redux store? When using a wrapper for your stores state, such as Immutable.js, you will need to change two things from the standard setup: By default, the library expects to find the history state at state.routing. If your wrapper prevents accessing properties directly, or you want to put the routing state elsewhere, pass a selector function to access the historystate via the selectLocationState option on syncHistoryWithStore. Provide your own reducer function that will receive actions of type LOCATION_CHANGE and return the payload merged into the locationBeforeTransitions property of the routing state. For example, state.set("routing", {locationBeforeTransitions: action.payload}). These two hooks will allow you to store the state that this library uses in whatever format or wrapper you would like. How do I access router state in a container component? React Router provides route information via a route components props. This makes it easy to access them from a container component. When using react-redux to connect() your components to state, you can access the routers props from the 2nd argument of mapStateToProps: js function mapStateToProps(state, ownProps) { return { id: ownProps.params.id, filter: ownProps.location.query.filter }; } You should not read the location state directly from the Redux store. This is because React Router operates asynchronously (to handle things such as dynamically-loaded components) and your component tree may not yet be updated in sync with your Redux state. You should rely on the props passed by React Router, as they are only updated after it has processed all asynchronous code. What if I want to issue navigation events via Redux actions? React Router provides singleton versions of history (browserHistory and hashHistory) that you can import and use from anywhere in your application. However, if you prefer Redux style actions, the library also provides a set of action creators and a middleware to capture them and redirect them to your history instance. ```js import { createStore, combineReducers, applyMiddleware } from redux; import { routerMiddleware, push } from react-router-redux // Apply the middleware to the store const middleware = routerMiddleware(browserHistory) const store = createStore( reducers, applyMiddleware(middleware) ) // Dispatch from anywhere like normal. store.dispatch(push(/foo)) ``` Examples examples/basic - basic reference implementation Examples from the community: react-redux-styled-hot-universal (SSR, Universal Webpack, Redux, React-router, Webpack 2, Babel, Styled Components and more...) shakacode/react-webpack-rails-tutorial - react-router-redux including Server Rendering using React on Rails, live at www.reactrails.com. davezuko/react-redux-starter-kit - popular redux starter kit tip: migrating from react-router-redux ^3.0.0? use this commit as a reference svrcekmichal/universal-react - Universal react app with async actions provided by svrcekmichal/reasync package steveniseki/react-router-redux-example - minimal react-router-redux example includes css modules and universal rendering choonkending/react-webpack-node - Full-stack universal Redux App kuy/treemap-with-router - An example for react-router-redux with d3s treemap. → Have an example to add? Send us a PR! ← API routerReducer() You must add this reducer to your store for syncing to work. A reducer function that stores location updates from history. If you use combineReducers, it should be nested under the routing key. history = syncHistoryWithStore(history, store, [options]) Creates an enhanced history from the provided history. This history changes history.listen to pass all location updates through the provided store first. This ensures if the store is updated either from a navigation event or from a time travel action, such as a replay, the listeners of the enhanced history will stay in sync. You must provide the enhanced history to your <Router> component. This ensures your routes stay in sync with your location and your store at the same time. The options object takes in the following optional keys: selectLocationState - (default state => state.routing) A selector function to obtain the history state from your store. Useful when not using the provided routerReducer to store history state. Allows you to use wrappers, such as Immutable.js. adjustUrlOnReplay - (default true) When false, the URL will not be kept in sync during time travel. This is useful when using persistState from Redux DevTools and not wanting to maintain the URL state when restoring state. push(location), replace(location), go(number), goBack(), goForward() You must install routerMiddleware for these action creators to work. Action creators that correspond with the history methods of the same name. For reference they are defined as follows: push - Pushes a new location to history, becoming the current location. replace - Replaces the current location in history. go - Moves backwards or forwards a relative number of locations in history. goForward - Moves forward one location. Equivalent to go(1) goBack - Moves backwards one location. Equivalent to go(-1) Both push and replace take in a location descriptor, which can be an object describing the URL or a plain string URL. These action creators are also available in one single object as routerActions, which can be used as a convenience when using Reduxs bindActionCreators(). routerMiddleware(history) A middleware you can apply to your Redux store to capture dispatched actions created by the action creators. It will redirect those actions to the provided history instance. LOCATION_CHANGE An action type that you can listen for in your reducers to be notified of route updates. Fires after any changes to history.