Recharts Introduction Recharts is a Redefined chart library built with React and D3. The main purpose of this library is to help you to write charts in React applications without any pain. Main principles of Recharts are: Simply deploy with React components Native SVG support, lightweight depending only on some D3 submodules Declarative components, components of charts are purely presentational Examples ```jsx <LineChart width={400} height={400} data={data} margin={{ top: 5, right: 20, left: 10, bottom: 5 }} ``` All the components of Recharts are clearly separated. The lineChart is composed of x axis, tooltip, grid, and line items, and each of them is an independent React Component. The clear separation and composition of components is one of the principle Recharts follows. Installation npm NPM is the easiest and fastest way to get started using Recharts. It is also the recommended installation method when building single-page applications (SPAs). It pairs nicely with a CommonJS module bundler such as Webpack. ```sh latest stable $ npm install recharts ``` umd The UMD build is also available on unpkg.com: html <script src="https://unpkg.com/recharts/umd/Recharts.min.js"></script> Then you can find the library on window.Recharts. dev build sh $ git clone https://github.com/recharts/recharts.git $ cd recharts $ npm install $ npm run build Demo To examine the demos in your local build, execute sh $ npm run[-script] demo and then browse to http://localhost:3000 Module Formats babel-plugin-recharts A simple transform to cherry-pick Recharts modules so you dont have to. Contribution Wed love :heart: to hear what you think we should build. Please create an issue to write your usage or ideas. We are looking for like-minded people who share the same idea about Recharts. The goal of this project is create a more flexible charting library for the React community. License MIT Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Recharts Group