redux-saga redux-saga is a library that aims to make application side effects (i.e. asynchronous things like data fetching and impure things like accessing the browser cache) easier to manage, more efficient to execute, easy to test, and better at handling failures. The mental model is that a saga is like a separate thread in your application thats solely responsible for side effects. redux-saga is a redux middleware, which means this thread can be started, paused and cancelled from the main application with normal redux actions, it has access to the full redux application state and it can dispatch redux actions as well. It uses an ES6 feature called Generators to make those asynchronous flows easy to read, write and test. (if youre not familiar with them here are some introductory links) By doing so, these asynchronous flows look like your standard synchronous JavaScript code. (kind of like async/await, but generators have a few more awesome features we need) You mightve used redux-thunk before to handle your data fetching. Contrary to redux thunk, you dont end up in callback hell, you can test your asynchronous flows easily and your actions stay pure. Getting started Install sh $ npm install --save redux-saga or sh $ yarn add redux-saga Alternatively, you may use the provided UMD builds directly in the <script> tag of an HTML page. See this section. Usage Example Suppose we have a UI to fetch some user data from a remote server when a button is clicked. (For brevity, well just show the action triggering code.) javascript class UserComponent extends React.Component { ... onSomeButtonClicked() { const { userId, dispatch } = this.props dispatch({type: USER_FETCH_REQUESTED, payload: {userId}}) } ... } The Component dispatches a plain Object action to the Store. Well create a Saga that watches for all USER_FETCH_REQUESTED actions and triggers an API call to fetch the user data. sagas.js ```javascript import { call, put, takeEvery, takeLatest } from redux-saga/effects import Api from ... // worker Saga: will be fired on USER_FETCH_REQUESTED actions function* fetchUser(action) { try { const user = yield call(Api.fetchUser, action.payload.userId); yield put({type: "USER_FETCH_SUCCEEDED", user: user}); } catch (e) { yield put({type: "USER_FETCH_FAILED", message: e.message}); } } / Starts fetchUser on each dispatched USER_FETCH_REQUESTED action. Allows concurrent fetches of user. / function* mySaga() { yield takeEvery("USER_FETCH_REQUESTED", fetchUser); } /* Alternatively you may use takeLatest. Does not allow concurrent fetches of user. If "USER_FETCH_REQUESTED" gets dispatched while a fetch is already pending, that pending fetch is cancelled and only the latest one will be run. / function mySaga() { yield takeLatest("USER_FETCH_REQUESTED", fetchUser); } export default mySaga; ``` To run our Saga, well have to connect it to the Redux Store using the redux-saga middleware. main.js ```javascript import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from redux import createSagaMiddleware from redux-saga import reducer from ./reducers import mySaga from ./sagas // create the saga middleware const sagaMiddleware = createSagaMiddleware() // mount it on the Store const store = createStore( reducer, applyMiddleware(sagaMiddleware) ) // then run the saga sagaMiddleware.run(mySaga) // render the application ``` Documentation Introduction Basic Concepts Advanced Concepts Recipes External Resources Troubleshooting Glossary API Reference Translation Chinese Traditional Chinese Japanese Korean Portuguese Russian Using umd build in the browser There is also a umd build of redux-saga available in the dist/ folder. When using the umd build redux-saga is available as ReduxSaga in the window object. This enables you to create Saga middleware without using ES6 import syntax like this: javascript var sagaMiddleware = ReduxSaga.default() The umd version is useful if you dont use Webpack or Browserify. You can access it directly from unpkg. The following builds are available: https://unpkg.com/redux-saga/dist/redux-saga.js https://unpkg.com/redux-saga/dist/redux-saga.min.js Important! If the browser you are targeting doesnt support ES2015 generators, you must transpile them (i.e. with babel plugin) and provide a valid runtime, such as the one here. The runtime must be imported before redux-saga: javascript import regenerator-runtime/runtime // then import sagaMiddleware from redux-saga Building examples from sources sh $ git clone https://github.com/redux-saga/redux-saga.git $ cd redux-saga $ npm install $ npm test Below are the examples ported (so far) from the Redux repos. Counter examples There are three counter examples. counter-vanilla Demo using vanilla JavaScript and UMD builds. All source is inlined in index.html. To launch the example, open index.html in your browser. Important: your browser must support Generators. Latest versions of Chrome/Firefox/Edge are suitable. counter Demo using webpack and high-level API takeEvery. ```sh $ npm run counter test sample for the generator $ npm run test-counter ``` cancellable-counter Demo using low-level API to demonstrate task cancellation. sh $ npm run cancellable-counter Shopping Cart example ```sh $ npm run shop test sample for the generator $ npm run test-shop ``` async example ```sh $ npm run async test sample for the generators $ npm run test-async ``` real-world example (with webpack hot reloading) ```sh $ npm run real-world sorry, no tests yet ``` TypeScript Redux-Saga with TypeScript requires DOM.Iterable or ES2015.Iterable. If your target is ES6, you are likely already set, however, for ES5, you will need to add it yourself. Check your tsconfig.json file, and the official compiler options documentation. Logo You can find the official Redux-Saga logo with different flavors in the logo directory. Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor]