IMPORTANT NOTE: Relax isnt yet ready for production, stay tuned for releases, beta version will come soon. You can see what were working on here and whats missing in the beta milestone. What is Relax Relax is a powerful new generation CMS on top of React and Node.js which aims for a better way of building websites. It features a live page builder based on components and a smart and easy way of binding dynamic data to them. Our goal with Relax is to update the world with a new standard, having as the basic premise that anyone should be able to create a website without having to code. Were currently working on releasing the beta version which should come up in December. If you want to collaborate in the meantime or just say anything join us at Relax Slack. Installation Dependencies Relax uses sharp to resize images. If youre using OS X and have libvips installed globally, e.g. via brew, it may cause problems with sharps compilation. You may need to uninstall via brew remove libvips. See https://github.com/lovell/sharp/issues/602 for more information. Youll also need yarn and MongoDB. How to Relax Since we are yet to tag our first release, git clone this repository and run the following commands: bash yarn yarn build yarn start By default the application runs at port 8080. Go ahead and visit http://localhost:8080/admin/init, here you can setup the first user and youre ready to relax. Configuration To configure the application you can use a .relaxrc file. You can place it next to the application, on any parent folder, in your HOME folder, etc. You can find a sample with the default values here. Contributing Build and start Development While in development its convenient to keep your application running while watching for changes, for that you can run yarn dev. The application will automatically restart when needed and keep your bundles up to date. Production To build your assets ready to go for production run yarn build and yarn start to start the application. With Docker To use our latest docker image you just have to have MongoDB running on a different container and link it to Relax. To start MongoDB in the background you can run docker run -d --name mongo mongo. Afterwards run docker run -p 8080:8080 --link mongo -it relax/relax to start Relax on http://localhost:8080. For more information about Docker please check their documentation. Support Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Subscription Sponsors Thanks to these amazing companies for supporting open source projects including Relax: License Relax is GPL-3 licensed. Troubleshooting Please create an issue.