nodemon nodemon is a tool that helps develop node.js based applications by automatically restarting the node application when file changes in the directory are detected. nodemon does not require any additional changes to your code or method of development. nodemon is a replacement wrapper for node, to use nodemon replace the word node on the command line when executing your script. Installation Either through cloning with git or by using npm (the recommended way): bash npm install -g nodemon And nodemon will be installed globally to your system path. You can also install nodemon as a development dependency: bash npm install --save-dev nodemon With a local installation, nodemon will not be available in your system path. Instead, the local installation of nodemon can be run by calling it from within an npm script (such as npm start) or using npx nodemon. Usage nodemon wraps your application, so you can pass all the arguments you would normally pass to your app: bash nodemon [your node app] For CLI options, use the -h (or --help) argument: bash nodemon -h Using nodemon is simple, if my application accepted a host and port as the arguments, I would start it as so: bash nodemon ./server.js localhost 8080 Any output from this script is prefixed with [nodemon], otherwise all output from your application, errors included, will be echoed out as expected. If no script is given, nodemon will test for a package.json file and if found, will run the file associated with the main property (ref). You can also pass the inspect flag to node through the command line as you would normally: bash nodemon --inspect ./server.js 80 If you have a package.json file for your app, you can omit the main script entirely and nodemon will read the package.json for the main property and use that value as the app. nodemon will also search for the scripts.start property in package.json (as of nodemon 1.1.x). Also check out the FAQ or issues for nodemon. Automatic re-running nodemon was originally written to restart hanging processes such as web servers, but now supports apps that cleanly exit. If your script exits cleanly, nodemon will continue to monitor the directory (or directories) and restart the script if there are any changes. Manual restarting Whilst nodemon is running, if you need to manually restart your application, instead of stopping and restart nodemon, you can type rs with a carriage return, and nodemon will restart your process. Config files nodemon supports local and global configuration files. These are usually named nodemon.json and can be located in the current working directory or in your home directory. An alternative local configuration file can be specified with the --config <file> option. The specificity is as follows, so that a command line argument will always override the config file settings: command line arguments local config global config A config file can take any of the command line arguments as JSON key values, for example: json { "verbose": true, "ignore": ["*.test.js", "fixtures/*"], "execMap": { "rb": "ruby", "pde": "processing --sketch={{pwd}} --run" } } The above nodemon.json file might be my global config so that I have support for ruby files and processing files, and I can run nodemon demo.pde and nodemon will automatically know how to run the script even though out of the box support for processing scripts. A further example of options can be seen in sample-nodemon.md package.json If you want to keep all your package configurations in one place, nodemon supports using package.json for configuration. Specify the config in the same format as you would for a config file but under nodemonConfig in the package.json file, for example, take the following package.json: json { "name": "nodemon", "homepage": "http://nodemon.io", "...": "... other standard package.json values", "nodemonConfig": { "ignore": ["test/*", "docs/*"], "delay": "2500" } } Note that if you specify a --config file or provide a local nodemon.json any package.json config is ignored. This section needs better documentation, but for now you can also see nodemon --help config (also here). Using nodemon as a module Please see doc/requireable.md Using nodemon as child process Please see doc/events.md Running non-node scripts nodemon can also be used to execute and monitor other programs. nodemon will read the file extension of the script being run and monitor that extension instead of .js if theres no nodemon.json: bash nodemon --exec "python -v" ./app.py Now nodemon will run app.py with python in verbose mode (note that if youre not passing args to the exec program, you dont need the quotes), and look for new or modified files with the .py extension. Default executables Using the nodemon.json config file, you can define your own default executables using the execMap property. This is particularly useful if youre working with a language that isnt supported by default by nodemon. To add support for nodemon to know about the .pl extension (for Perl), the nodemon.json file would add: json { "execMap": { "pl": "perl" } } Now running the following, nodemon will know to use perl as the executable: bash nodemon script.pl Its generally recommended to use the global nodemon.json to add your own execMap options. However, if theres a common default thats missing, this can be merged in to the project so that nodemon supports it by default, by changing default.js and sending a pull request. Monitoring multiple directories By default nodemon monitors the current working directory. If you want to take control of that option, use the --watch option to add specific paths: bash nodemon --watch app --watch libs app/server.js Now nodemon will only restart if there are changes in the ./app or ./libs directory. By default nodemon will traverse sub-directories, so theres no need in explicitly including sub-directories. Dont use unix globbing to pass multiple directories, e.g --watch ./lib/*, it wont work. You need a --watch flag per directory watched. Specifying extension watch list By default, nodemon looks for files with the .js, .mjs, .coffee, .litcoffee, and .json extensions. If you use the --exec option and monitor app.py nodemon will monitor files with the extension of .py. However, you can specify your own list with the -e (or --ext) switch like so: bash nodemon -e js,jade Now nodemon will restart on any changes to files in the directory (or subdirectories) with the extensions .js, .jade. Ignoring files By default, nodemon will only restart when a .js JavaScript file changes. In some cases you will want to ignore some specific files, directories or file patterns, to prevent nodemon from prematurely restarting your application. This can be done via the command line: bash nodemon --ignore lib/ --ignore tests/ Or specific files can be ignored: bash nodemon --ignore lib/app.js Patterns can also be ignored (but be sure to quote the arguments): bash nodemon --ignore lib/*.js Note that by default, nodemon will ignore the .git, node_modules, bower_components, .nyc_output, coverage and .sass-cache directories and add your ignored patterns to the list. If you want to indeed watch a directory like node_modules, you need to override the underlying default ignore rules. Application isnt restarting In some networked environments (such as a container running nodemon reading across a mounted drive), you will need to use the legacyWatch: true which enables Chokidars polling. Via the CLI, use either --legacy-watch or -L for short: bash nodemon -L Though this should be a last resort as it will poll every file it can find. Delaying restarting In some situations, you may want to wait until a number of files have changed. The timeout before checking for new file changes is 1 second. If youre uploading a number of files and its taking some number of seconds, this could cause your app to restart multiple times unnecessarily. To add an extra throttle, or delay restarting, use the --delay command: bash nodemon --delay 10 server.js For more precision, milliseconds can be specified. Either as a float: bash nodemon --delay 2.5 server.js Or using the time specifier (ms): bash nodemon --delay 2500ms server.js The delay figure is number of seconds (or milliseconds, if specified) to delay before restarting. So nodemon will only restart your app the given number of seconds after the last file change. If you are setting this value in nodemon.json, the value will always be interpreted in milliseconds. E.g., the following are equivalent: ```bash nodemon --delay 2.5 { "delay": "2500" } ``` Controlling shutdown of your script nodemon sends a kill signal to your application when it sees a file update. If you need to clean up on shutdown inside your script you can capture the kill signal and handle it yourself. The following example will listen once for the SIGUSR2 signal (used by nodemon to restart), run the clean up process and then kill itself for nodemon to continue control: js process.once(SIGUSR2, function () { gracefulShutdown(function () { process.kill(process.pid, SIGUSR2); }); }); Note that the process.kill is only called once your shutdown jobs are complete. Hat tip to Benjie Gillam for writing this technique up. Triggering events when nodemon state changes If you want growl like notifications when nodemon restarts or to trigger an action when an event happens, then you can either require nodemon or add event actions to your nodemon.json file. For example, to trigger a notification on a Mac when nodemon restarts, nodemon.json looks like this: json { "events": { "restart": "osascript -e display notification \"app restarted\" with title \"nodemon\"" } } A full list of available events is listed on the event states wiki. Note that you can bind to both states and messages. Pipe output to somewhere else js nodemon({ script: ..., stdout: false // important: this tells nodemon not to output to console }).on(readable, function() { // the `readable` event indicates that data is ready to pick up this.stdout.pipe(fs.createWriteStream(output.txt)); this.stderr.pipe(fs.createWriteStream(err.txt)); }); Using nodemon in your gulp workflow Check out the gulp-nodemon plugin to integrate nodemon with the rest of your projects gulp workflow. Using nodemon in your Grunt workflow Check out the grunt-nodemon plugin to integrate nodemon with the rest of your projects grunt workflow. Pronunciation nodemon, is it pronounced: node-mon, no-demon or node-e-mon (like pokémon)? Well...Ive been asked this many times before. I like that Ive been asked this before. Theres been bets as to which one it actually is. The answer is simple, but possibly frustrating. Im not saying (how I pronounce it). Its up to you to call it as you like. All answers are correct :) Design principles Less flags is better Works across all platforms Less features Let individuals build on top of nodemon Offer all CLI functionality as an API Contributions must have and pass tests Nodemon is not perfect, and CLI arguments has sprawled beyond where Im completely happy, but perhaps it can be reduced a little one day. FAQ See the FAQ and please add your own questions if you think they would help others. Backers Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 Sponsors Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. Sponsor this project today ❤️ License MIT http://rem.mit-license.org