Etcher Flash OS images to SD cards & USB drives, safely and easily. Etcher is a powerful OS image flasher built with web technologies to ensure flashing an SDCard or USB drive is a pleasant and safe experience. It protects you from accidentally writing to your hard-drives, ensures every byte of data was written correctly and much more. Download | Support | Documentation | Contributing | Roadmap | CLI Supported Operating Systems Linux (most distros) macOS 10.9 and later Microsoft Windows 7 and later Note that Etcher will run on any platform officially supported by Electron. Read more in their documentation. Installers Refer to the downloads page for the latest pre-made installers for all supported operating systems. Debian and Ubuntu based Package Repository (GNU/Linux x86/x64) Add Etcher debian repository: echo "deb https://dl.bintray.com/resin-io/debian stable etcher" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/etcher.list Trust Bintray.coms GPG key: sh sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 379CE192D401AB61 Update and install: sh sudo apt-get update sudo apt-get install etcher-electron Uninstall sh sudo apt-get remove etcher-electron sudo rm /etc/apt/sources.list.d/etcher.list sudo apt-get update Redhat (RHEL) and Fedora based Package Repository (GNU/Linux x86/x64) Add Etcher rpm repository: sh sudo wget https://bintray.com/resin-io/redhat/rpm -O /etc/yum.repos.d/bintray-resin-io-redhat.repo Update and install: sh sudo yum install -y etcher-electron or sh sudo dnf install -y etcher-electron Uninstall sudo yum remove -y etcher-electron sudo rm /etc/yum.repos.d/bintray-resin-io-redhat.repo sudo yum clean all sudo yum makecache fast or sudo dnf remove -y etcher-electron sudo rm /etc/yum.repos.d/bintray-resin-io-redhat.repo sudo dnf clean all sudo dnf makecache Brew Cask (macOS) Note that the Etcher Cask has to be updated manually to point to new versions, so it might not refer to the latest version immediately after an Etcher release. sh brew cask install etcher Uninstall sh brew cask uninstall etcher Chocolatey (Windows) This package is maintained by @majkinetor, and is kept up to date automatically. sh choco install etcher Support If youre having any problem, please raise an issue on GitHub and the resin.io team will be happy to help. License Etcher is free software, and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the license.