This library provides an async image downloader with cache support. For convenience, we added categories for UI elements like UIImageView, UIButton, MKAnnotationView. Features [x] Categories for UIImageView, UIButton, MKAnnotationView adding web image and cache management [x] An asynchronous image downloader [x] An asynchronous memory + disk image caching with automatic cache expiration handling [x] A background image decompression [x] A guarantee that the same URL wont be downloaded several times [x] A guarantee that bogus URLs wont be retried again and again [x] A guarantee that main thread will never be blocked [x] Performances! [x] Use GCD and ARC Supported Image Formats Image formats supported by UIImage (JPEG, PNG, ...), including GIF WebP format, including animated WebP (use the WebP subspec) Requirements iOS 7.0 or later tvOS 9.0 or later watchOS 2.0 or later macOS 10.9 or later Xcode 7.3 or later Backwards compatibility For iOS 5 and 6, use any 3.x version up to 3.7.6 For iOS < 5.0, please use the last 2.0 version. Getting Started Read this Readme doc Read the How to use section Read the Documentation @ CocoaDocs Try the example by downloading the project from Github or even easier using CocoaPods try pod try SDWebImage Read the Installation Guide Read the SDWebImage 4.0 Migration Guide to get an idea of the changes from 3.x to 4.x Read the Common Problems to find the solution for common problems Go to the Wiki Page for more information such as Advanced Usage Who Uses It Find out who uses SDWebImage and add your app to the list. Communication If you need help, use Stack Overflow. (Tag sdwebimage) If youd like to ask a general question, use Stack Overflow. If you found a bug, open an issue. If you have a feature request, open an issue. If you want to contribute, submit a pull request. How To Use Objective-C ```objective-c import ... [imageView sd_setImageWithURL:[NSURL URLWithString:@"http://www.domain.com/path/to/image.jpg"] placeholderImage:[UIImage imageNamed:@"placeholder.png"]]; ``` Swift ```swift import SDWebImage imageView.sd_setImage(with: URL(string: "http://www.domain.com/path/to/image.jpg"), placeholderImage: UIImage(named: "placeholder.png")) ``` For details about how to use the library and clear examples, see The detailed How to use Animated Images (GIF) support Starting with the 4.0 version, we rely on FLAnimatedImage to take care of our animated images. If you use cocoapods, add pod SDWebImage/GIF to your podfile. To use it, simply make sure you use FLAnimatedImageView instead of UIImageView. Note: there is a backwards compatible feature, so if you are still trying to load a GIF into a UIImageView, it will only show the 1st frame as a static image by default. However, you can enable the full GIF support by using the built-in GIF coder. See GIF coder Important: FLAnimatedImage only works on the iOS platform. For macOS, use NSImageView with animates set to YES to show the entire animated images and NO to only show the 1st frame. For all the other platforms (tvOS, watchOS) we will fallback to the backwards compatibility feature described above Installation There are three ways to use SDWebImage in your project: - using CocoaPods - using Carthage - by cloning the project into your repository Installation with CocoaPods CocoaPods is a dependency manager for Objective-C, which automates and simplifies the process of using 3rd-party libraries in your projects. See the Get Started section for more details. Podfile platform :ios, 7.0 pod SDWebImage, ~> 4.0 If you are using Swift, be sure to add use_frameworks! and set your target to iOS 8+: platform :ios, 8.0 use_frameworks! Subspecs There are 4 subspecs available now: Core, MapKit, GIF and WebP (this means you can install only some of the SDWebImage modules. By default, you get just Core, so if you need WebP, you need to specify it). Podfile example: pod SDWebImage/WebP Installation with Carthage (iOS 8+) Carthage is a lightweight dependency manager for Swift and Objective-C. It leverages CocoaTouch modules and is less invasive than CocoaPods. To install with carthage, follow the instruction on Carthage Cartfile github "rs/SDWebImage" Installation by cloning the repository see Manual install Import headers in your source files In the source files where you need to use the library, import the header file: ```objective-c import ``` Build Project At this point your workspace should build without error. If you are having problem, post to the Issue and the community can help you solve it. Author Olivier Poitrey Collaborators Konstantinos K. Bogdan Poplauschi Chester Liu DreamPiggy Wu Zhong Licenses All source code is licensed under the MIT License. Architecture