NProgress Minimalist progress bar Slim progress bars for Ajaxy applications. Inspired by Google, YouTube, and Medium. Installation Add nprogress.js and nprogress.css to your project. html <script src=nprogress.js></script> <link rel=stylesheet href=nprogress.css/> NProgress is available via bower and npm. $ npm install --save nprogress Also available via unpkg CDN: https://unpkg.com/nprogress@0.2.0/nprogress.js https://unpkg.com/nprogress@0.2.0/nprogress.css Basic usage Simply call start() and done() to control the progress bar. ~~~ js NProgress.start(); NProgress.done(); ~~~ Turbolinks (version 5+) Ensure youre using Turbolinks 5+, and use this: (explained here) ~~~ js $(document).on(turbolinks:click, function() { NProgress.start(); }); $(document).on(turbolinks:render, function() { NProgress.done(); NProgress.remove(); }); ~~~ Turbolinks (version 3 and below) Ensure youre using Turbolinks 1.3.0+, and use this: (explained here) ~~~ js $(document).on(page:fetch, function() { NProgress.start(); }); $(document).on(page:change, function() { NProgress.done(); }); $(document).on(page:restore, function() { NProgress.remove(); }); ~~~ Pjax Try this: (explained here) ~~~ js $(document).on(pjax:start, function() { NProgress.start(); }); $(document).on(pjax:end, function() { NProgress.done(); }); ~~~ Ideas Add progress to your Ajax calls! Bind it to the jQuery ajaxStart and ajaxStop events. Make a fancy loading bar even without Turbolinks/Pjax! Bind it to $(document).ready and $(window).load. Advanced usage Percentages: To set a progress percentage, call .set(n), where n is a number between 0..1. ~~~ js NProgress.set(0.0); // Sorta same as .start() NProgress.set(0.4); NProgress.set(1.0); // Sorta same as .done() ~~~ Incrementing: To increment the progress bar, just use .inc(). This increments it with a random amount. This will never get to 100%: use it for every image load (or similar). ~~~ js NProgress.inc(); ~~~ If you want to increment by a specific value, you can pass that as a parameter: ~~~ js NProgress.inc(0.2); // This will get the current status value and adds 0.2 until status is 0.994 ~~~ Force-done: By passing true to done(), it will show the progress bar even if its not being shown. (The default behavior is that .done() will not do anything if .start() isnt called) ~~~ js NProgress.done(true); ~~~ Get the status value: To get the status value, use .status Configuration minimum Changes the minimum percentage used upon starting. (default: 0.08) ~~~ js NProgress.configure({ minimum: 0.1 }); ~~~ template You can change the markup using template. To keep the progress bar working, keep an element with role=bar in there. See the default template for reference. ~~~ js NProgress.configure({ template: "..." }); ~~~ easing and speed Adjust animation settings using easing (a CSS easing string) and speed (in ms). (default: ease and 200) ~~~ js NProgress.configure({ easing: ease, speed: 500 }); ~~~ trickle Turn off the automatic incrementing behavior by setting this to false. (default: true) ~~~ js NProgress.configure({ trickle: false }); ~~~ trickleSpeed Adjust how often to trickle/increment, in ms. ~~~ js NProgress.configure({ trickleSpeed: 200 }); ~~~ showSpinner Turn off loading spinner by setting it to false. (default: true) ~~~ js NProgress.configure({ showSpinner: false }); ~~~ parent specify this to change the parent container. (default: body) ~~~ js NProgress.configure({ parent: #container }); ~~~ Customization Just edit nprogress.css to your liking. Tip: you probably only want to find and replace occurrences of #29d. The included CSS file is pretty minimal... in fact, feel free to scrap it and make your own! Resources New UI Pattern: Website Loading Bars (usabilitypost.com) Support Bugs and requests: submit them through the projects issues tracker. Questions: ask them at StackOverflow with the tag nprogress. Chat: join us at gitter.im. Thanks NProgress © 2013-2017, Rico Sta. Cruz. Released under the MIT License. Authored and maintained by Rico Sta. Cruz with help from contributors. ricostacruz.com · GitHub @rstacruz · Twitter @rstacruz