Redux Persist Persist and rehydrate a redux store. Quickstart npm install redux-persist Usage Examples: 1. Basic Usage 2. Nested Persists 3. Hot Module Replacement 4. Code Splitting [coming soon] Basic Usage Basic usage involves adding persistReducer and persistStore to your setup. IMPORTANT Every app needs to decide how many levels of state they want to "merge". The default is 1 level. Please read through the state reconciler docs for more information. ```js // configureStore.js import { createStore } from redux import { persistStore, persistReducer } from redux-persist import storage from redux-persist/lib/storage // defaults to localStorage for web and AsyncStorage for react-native import rootReducer from ./reducers const persistConfig = { key: root, storage, } const persistedReducer = persistReducer(persistConfig, rootReducer) export default () => { let store = createStore(persistedReducer) let persistor = persistStore(store) return { store, persistor } } ``` If you are using react, wrap your root component with PersistGate. This delays the rendering of your apps UI until your persisted state has been retrieved and saved to redux. NOTE the PersistGate loading prop can be null, or any react instance, e.g. loading={<Loading />} ```js import { PersistGate } from redux-persist/integration/react // ... normal setup, create store and persistor, import components etc. const App = () => { return ( ); }; ``` API Full API persistReducer(config, reducer) arguments config object required config: key, storage notable other config: whitelist, blacklist, version, stateReconciler, debug reducer function any reducer will work, typically this would be the top level reducer returned by combineReducers returns an enhanced reducer persistStore(store, [config, callback]) arguments store redux store The store to be persisted. config object (typically null) callback function will be called after rehydration is finished. returns persistor object persistor object the persistor object is returned by persistStore with the following methods: .purge() purges state from disk and returns a promise .flush() immediately writes all pending state to disk and returns a promise .pause() pauses persistence .persist() resumes persistence State Reconciler State reconcilers define how incoming state is merged in with initial state. It is critical to choose the right state reconciler for your state. There are three options that ship out of the box, lets look at how each operates: hardSet (import hardSet from redux-persist/lib/stateReconciler/hardSet) This will hard set incoming state. This can be desirable in some cases where persistReducer is nested deeper in your reducer tree, or if you do not rely on initialState in your reducer. incoming state: { foo: incomingFoo } initial state: { foo: initialFoo, bar: initialBar } reconciled state: { foo: incomingFoo } // note bar has been dropped autoMergeLevel1 (default) This will auto merge one level deep. Auto merge means if the some piece of substate was modified by your reducer during the REHYDRATE action, it will skip this piece of state. Level 1 means it will shallow merge 1 level deep. incoming state: { foo: incomingFoo } initial state: { foo: initialFoo, bar: initialBar } reconciled state: { foo: incomingFoo, bar: initialBar } // note incomingFoo overwrites initialFoo autoMergeLevel2 (import autoMergeLevel2 from redux-persist/lib/stateReconciler/autoMergeLevel2) This acts just like autoMergeLevel1, except it shallow merges two levels incoming state: { foo: incomingFoo } initial state: { foo: initialFoo, bar: initialBar } reconciled state: { foo: mergedFoo, bar: initialBar } // note: initialFoo and incomingFoo are shallow merged Example ```js import hardSet from redux-persist/lib/stateReconciler/hardSet const persistConfig = { key: root, storage, stateReconciler: hardSet, } ``` React Integration Redux persist ships with react integration as a conveinence. The PersistGate component is the recommended way to delay rendering until persistence is complete. It works in one of two modes: 1. loading prop: The provided loading value will be rendered until persistence is complete at which point children will be rendered. 2. function childen: The function will be invoked with a single bootstrapped argument. When bootstrapped is true, persistence is complete and it is safe to render the full app. This can be useful for adding transition animations. Blacklist & Whitelist By Example: ```js // BLACKLIST const persistConfig = { key: root, storage: storage, blacklist: [navigation] // navigation will not be persisted }; // WHITELIST const persistConfig = { key: root, storage: storage, whitelist: [navigation] // only navigation will be persisted }; ``` Nested Persists Nested persist can be useful for including different storage adapters, code splitting, or deep filtering. For example while blacklist and whitelist only work one level deep, but we can use a nested persist to blacklist a deeper value: ```js import { combineReducers } from redux import { persistReducer } from redux-persist import storage from redux-persist/lib/storage import { authReducer, otherReducer } from ./reducers const rootPersistConfig = { key: root, storage: storage, blacklist: [auth] } const authPersistConfig = { key: auth, storage: storage, blacklist: [somethingTemporary] } const rootReducer = combineReducers({ auth: persistReducer(authPersistConfig, authReducer), other: otherReducer, }) export default persistReducer(rootPersistConfig, rootReducer) ``` Migrations persistReducer has a general purpose "migrate" config which will be called after getting stored state but before actually reconciling with the reducer. It can be any function which takes state as an argument and returns a promise to return a new state object. Redux Persist ships with createMigrate, which helps create a synchronous migration for moving from any version of stored state to the current state version. [Additional information] Transforms Transforms allow you to customize the state object that gets persisted and rehydrated. There are several libraries that tackle some of the common implementations for transforms. - immutable - support immutable reducers - compress - compress your serialized state with lz-string - encrypt - encrypt your serialized state with AES - filter - store or load a subset of your state - filter-immutable - store or load a subset of your state with support for immutablejs - expire - expire a specific subset of your state based on a property When the state object gets persisted, it first gets serialized with JSON.stringify(). If parts of your state object are not mappable to JSON objects, the serialization process may transform these parts of your state in unexpected ways. For example, the javascript Set type does not exist in JSON. When you try to serialize a Set via JSON.stringify(), it gets converted to an empty object. Probably not what you want. Below is a Transform that successfully persists a Set property, which simply converts it to an array and back. In this way, the Set gets converted to an Array, which is a recognized data structure in JSON. When pulled out of the persisted store, the array gets converted back to a Set before being saved to the redux store. js const myTransform = createTransform( // transform state on its way to being serialized and persisted. (inboundState, key) => { // convert mySet to an Array. return { ...inboundState, mySet: [...inboundState.mySet] }; }, // transform state being rehydrated (outboundState, key) => { // convert mySet back to a Set. return { ...outboundState, mySet: new Set(outboundState.mySet) }; }, // define which reducers this transform gets called for. { whitelist: [someReducer] } ); The createTransform function takes three parameters. 1. An "inbound" function that gets called right before state is persisted. 2. An "outbound" function that gets called right before state is rehydrated. 3. Config. Storage Engines localStorage import storage from redux-persist/lib/storage sessionStorage import storageSession from redux-persist/lib/storage/session AsyncStorage react-native import { AsyncStorage } from react-native localForage recommended for web electron storage Electron support via electron store redux-persist-filesystem-storage react-native, to mitigate storage size limitations in android (#199, #284) redux-persist-node-storage for use in nodejs environments. redux-persist-sensitive-storage react-native, for sensitive information (uses react-native-sensitive-info). redux-persist-expo-securestore react-native, for sensitive information using Expos SecureStore. Only available if using Expo SDK (Expo, create-react-native-app, standalone). redux-persist-fs-storage react-native-fs engine redux-persist-cookie-storage Cookie storage engine, works in browser and Node.js, for universal / isomorphic apps redux-persist-weapp-storage Storage engine for wechat mini program, also compatible with wepy custom any conforming storage api implementing the following methods: setItem getItem removeItem. (NB: These methods must support promises)