Role models are important. -- Officer Alex J. Murphy / RoboCop RuboCop is a Ruby static code analyzer and code formatter. Out of the box it will enforce many of the guidelines outlined in the community Ruby Style Guide. RuboCop is extremely flexible and most aspects of its behavior can be tweaked via various configuration options. Apart from reporting problems in your code, RuboCop can also automatically fix some of the problems for you. Please consider supporting financially its ongoing development. Installation RuboCops installation is pretty standard: sh $ gem install rubocop If youd rather install RuboCop using bundler, dont require it in your Gemfile: rb gem rubocop, require: false RuboCops development is moving at a very rapid pace and there are often backward-incompatible changes between minor releases (since we havent reached version 1.0 yet). To prevent an unwanted RuboCop update you might want to use a conservative version locking in your Gemfile: rb gem rubocop, ~> 0.58.1, require: false Quickstart Just type rubocop in a Ruby projects folder and watch the magic happen. $ cd my/cool/ruby/project $ rubocop Official manual You can read a ton more about RuboCop in its official manual. Compatibility RuboCop supports the following Ruby implementations: MRI 2.2+ JRuby 9.0+ The Rails cops support the following versions: Rails 4.0+ Team Heres a list of RuboCops core developers: Bozhidar Batsov (author & head maintainer) Jonas Arvidsson Yuji Nakayama Evgeni Dzhelyov (retired) Ted Johansson Masataka Kuwabara Koichi Ito Logo RuboCops logo was created by Dimiter Petrov. You can find the logo in various formats here. The logo is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License. Contributors Heres a list of all the people who have contributed to the development of RuboCop. Im extremely grateful to each and every one of them! If youd like to contribute to RuboCop, please take the time to go through our short contribution guidelines. Converting more of the Ruby Style Guide into RuboCop cops is our top priority right now. Writing a new cop is a great way to dive into RuboCop! Of course, bug reports and suggestions for improvements are always welcome. GitHub pull requests are even better! :-) Funding While RuboCop is free software and will always be, the project would benefit immensely from some funding. Raising a monthly budget of a couple of thousand dollars would make it possible to pay people to work on certain complex features, fund other development related stuff (e.g. hardware, conference trips) and so on. Raising a monthly budget of over $5000 would open the possibility of someone working full-time on the project which would speed up the pace of development significantly. We welcome both individual and corporate sponsors! We also offer a wide array of funding channels to account for your preferences (although currently Open Collective is our preferred funding platform). If youre working in a company thats making significant use of RuboCop wed appreciate it if you suggest to your company to become a RuboCop sponsor. You can support the development of RuboCop via Salt, Patreon, Liberapay, and Open Collective. Open Collective Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Open Collective Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on GitHub with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Changelog RuboCops changelog is available here. Copyright Copyright (c) 2012-2018 Bozhidar Batsov. See LICENSE.txt for further details.