Plyr A simple, lightweight, accessible and customizable HTML5, YouTube and Vimeo media player that supports modern browsers. Checkout the demo - Donate to support Plyr - Chat on Slack Features Accessible - full support for VTT captions and screen readers Customisable - make the player look how you want with the markup you want Good HTML - uses the right elements. <input type="range"> for volume and <progress> for progress and well, <button>s for buttons. Theres no <span> or <a href="#"> button hacks Responsive - works with any screen size HTML Video & Audio - support for both formats Embedded Video - support for YouTube and Vimeo video playback Monetization - make money from your videos Streaming - support for hls.js, Shaka and dash.js streaming playback API - toggle playback, volume, seeking, and more through a standardized API Events - no messing around with Vimeo and YouTube APIs, all events are standardized across formats Fullscreen - supports native fullscreen with fallback to "full window" modes Shortcuts - supports keyboard shortcuts Picture-in-Picture - supports Safaris picture-in-picture mode Playsinline - supports the playsinline attribute Speed controls - adjust speed on the fly Multiple captions - support for multiple caption tracks i18n support - support for internationalization of controls No dependencies - written in "vanilla" ES6 JavaScript, no jQuery required SASS - to include in your build processes Oh and yes, it works with Bootstrap. Changelog Check out the changelog to see whats new with Plyr. Plugins & Components Some awesome folks have made plugins for CMSs and Components for JavaScript frameworks: | Type | Maintainer | Link | | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | WordPress | Brandon Lavigne (@drrobotnik) | https://wordpress.org/plugins/plyr/ | | React | Jose Miguel Bejarano (@xDae) | https://github.com/xDae/react-plyr | | Vue | Gabe Dunn (@redxtech) | https://github.com/redxtech/vue-plyr | | Neos | Jon Uhlmann (@jonnitto) | https://packagist.org/packages/jonnitto/plyr | | Kirby | Dominik Pschenitschni (@dpschen) | https://github.com/dpschen/kirby-plyrtag | Quick setup Heres a quick run through on getting up and running. Theres also a demo on Codepen. You can grab all of the source with NPM using npm install plyr. Try Plyr online You can try Plyr in Codepen using our minimal templates: HTML5 video, HTML5 audio, YouTube, Vimeo. For Streaming we also have example integrations with: Dash.js, Hls.js and Shaka Player HTML Plyr extends upon the standard HTML5 media element markup so thats all you need for those types. HTML5 Video ```html <!-- Captions are optional --> <track kind="captions" label="English captions" src="/path/to/captions.vtt" srclang="en" default> ``` HTML5 Audio html <audio id="player" controls> <source src="/path/to/audio.mp3" type="audio/mp3"> <source src="/path/to/audio.ogg" type="audio/ogg"> </audio> For YouTube and Vimeo players, Plyr uses progressive enhancement to enhance the default <iframe> embeds. Below are some examples. The plyr__video-embed classname will make the embed responsive. You can add the autoplay, loop and playsinline (YouTube only) query parameters to the URL and they will be set as config options automatically. For YouTube, the origin should be updated to reflect the domain youre hosting the embed on, or you can opt to omit it. YouTube embed We recommend progressive enhancement with the embedded players. You can elect to use an <iframe> as the source element (which Plyr will progressively enhance) or a bog standard <div> with two essential data attributes - data-plyr-provider and data-plyr-embed-id. html <div class="plyr__video-embed" id="player"> <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bTqVqk7FSmY?origin=https://plyr.io&amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;modestbranding=1&amp;playsinline=1&amp;showinfo=0&amp;rel=0&amp;enablejsapi=1" allowfullscreen allowtransparency allow="autoplay"></iframe> </div> Note: The plyr__video-embed classname will make the player a responsive 16:9 (most common) iframe embed. When plyr itself kicks in, your custom ratio config option will be used. Or the <div> non progressively enhanced method: html <div id="player" data-plyr-provider="youtube" data-plyr-embed-id="bTqVqk7FSmY"></div> Note: The data-plyr-embed-id can either be the video ID or URL for the media. Vimeo embed Much the same as YouTube above. html <div class="plyr__video-embed" id="player"> <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/76979871?loop=false&amp;byline=false&amp;portrait=false&amp;title=false&amp;speed=true&amp;transparent=0&amp;gesture=media" allowfullscreen allowtransparency allow="autoplay"></iframe> </div> Or the <div> non progressively enhanced method: html <div id="player" data-plyr-provider="vimeo" data-plyr-embed-id="76979871"></div> JavaScript Include the plyr.js script before the closing </body> tag and then in your JS create a new instance of Plyr as below. html <script src="path/to/plyr.js"></script> <script>const player = new Plyr(#player);</script> See initialising for more information on advanced setups. You can use our CDN (provided by Fastly) for the JavaScript. Theres 2 versions; one with and one without polyfills. My recommendation would be to manage polyfills seperately as part of your application but to make life easier you can use the polyfilled build. html <script src="https://cdn.plyr.io/3.3.21/plyr.js"></script> ...or... html <script src="https://cdn.plyr.io/3.3.21/plyr.polyfilled.js"></script> CSS Include the plyr.css stylsheet into your <head> html <link rel="stylesheet" href="path/to/plyr.css"> If you want to use our CDN (provided by Fastly) for the default CSS, you can use the following: html <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.plyr.io/3.3.21/plyr.css"> SVG Sprite The SVG sprite is loaded automatically from our CDN (provided by Fastly). To change this, see the options below. For reference, the CDN hosted SVG sprite can be found at https://cdn.plyr.io/3.3.21/plyr.svg. Ads Plyr has partnered up with vi.ai to offer monetization options for your videos. Getting setup is easy: Sign up for a vi.ai account Grab your publisher ID from the code snippet Enable ads in the config options and enter your publisher ID Any questions regarding the ads can be sent straight to vi.ai and any issues with rendering raised through GitHub issues. Advanced SASS You can use bundle.scss file included in /src as part of your build and change variables to suit your design. The SASS require you to use the autoprefixer plugin (you be should already!) as all declarations use the W3C definitions. The HTML markup uses the BEM methodology with plyr as the block, e.g. .plyr__controls. You can change the class hooks in the options to match any custom CSS you write. Check out the JavaScript source for more on this. SVG The icons used in the Plyr controls are loaded in an SVG sprite. The sprite is automatically loaded from our CDN by default. If you already have an icon build system in place, you can include the source plyr icons (see /src/sprite for source icons). Using the iconUrl option You can however specify your own iconUrl option and Plyr will determine if the url is absolute and requires loading by AJAX/CORS due to current browser limitations or if its a relative path, just use the path directly. If youre using the <base> tag on your site, you may need to use something like this: svgfixer.js More info on SVG sprites here: http://css-tricks.com/svg-sprites-use-better-icon-fonts/ and the AJAX technique here: http://css-tricks.com/ajaxing-svg-sprite/ Cross Origin (CORS) Youll notice the crossorigin attribute on the example <video> elements. This is because the TextTrack captions are loaded from another domain. If your TextTrack captions are also hosted on another domain, you will need to add this attribute and make sure your host has the correct headers setup. For more info on CORS checkout the MDN docs: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Access_control_CORS Captions WebVTT captions are supported. To add a caption track, check the HTML example above and look for the <track> element. Be sure to validate your caption files. JavaScript Initialising You can specify a range of arguments for the constructor to use: A CSS string selector thats compatible with querySelector A HTMLElement A NodeList A jQuery object Note: If a NodeList, Array, or jQuery object are passed, the first element will be used for setup. To setup multiple players, see setting up multiple players below. Heres some examples Passing a string selector: javascript const player = new Plyr(#player); Passing a HTMLElement: javascript const player = new Plyr(document.getElementById(player)); Passing a NodeList (see note below): javascript const player = new Plyr(document.querySelectorAll(.js-player)); The NodeList, HTMLElement or string selector can be the target <video>, <audio>, or <div> wrapper for embeds. Setting up multiple players You have two choices here. You can either use a simple array loop to map the constructor: javascript const players = Array.from(document.querySelectorAll(.js-player)).map(p => new Plyr(p)); ...or use a static method where you can pass a string selector, a NodeList or an Array of elements: javascript const players = Plyr.setup(.js-player); Both options will also return an array of instances in the order of they were in the DOM for the string selector or the source NodeList or Array. Passing options The second argument for the constructor is the options object: javascript const player = new Plyr(#player, { /* options */ }); In all cases, the constructor will return a Plyr object that can be used with the API methods. See the API section for more info. Options Options can be passed as an object to the constructor as above or as JSON in data-plyr-config attribute on each of your target elements: html <video src="/path/to/video.mp4" id="player" controls data-plyr-config={ "title": "This is an example video", "volume": 1, "debug": true }></video> Note the single quotes encapsulating the JSON and double quotes on the object keys. Only string values need double quotes. | Option | Type | Default | Description | | -------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | enabled | Boolean | true | Completely disable Plyr. This would allow you to do a User Agent check or similar to programmatically enable or disable Plyr for a certain UA. Example below. | | debug | Boolean | false | Display debugging information in the console | | controls | Array, Function or Element | [play-large, play, progress, current-time, mute, volume, captions, settings, pip, airplay, fullscreen] | If a function is passed, it is assumed your method will return either an element or HTML string for the controls. Three arguments will be passed to your function; id (the unique id for the player), seektime (the seektime step in seconds), and title (the media title). See controls.md for more info on how the html needs to be structured. | | settings | Array | [captions, quality, speed, loop] | If youre using the default controls are used then you can specify which settings to show in the menu | | i18n | Object | See defaults.js | Used for internationalization (i18n) of the text within the UI. | | loadSprite | Boolean | true | Load the SVG sprite specified as the iconUrl option (if a URL). If false, it is assumed you are handling sprite loading yourself. | | iconUrl | String | null | Specify a URL or path to the SVG sprite. See the SVG section for more info. | | iconPrefix | String | plyr | Specify the id prefix for the icons used in the default controls (e.g. "plyr-play" would be "plyr"). This is to prevent clashes if youre using your own SVG sprite but with the default controls. Most people can ignore this option. | | blankUrl | String | https://cdn.plyr.io/static/blank.mp4 | Specify a URL or path to a blank video file used to properly cancel network requests. | | autoplay | Boolean | false | Autoplay the media on load. This is generally advised against on UX grounds. It is also disabled by default in some browsers. If the autoplay attribute is present on a <video> or <audio> element, this will be automatically set to true. | | autopause¹ | Boolean | true | Only allow one player playing at once. | | seekTime | Number | 10 | The time, in seconds, to seek when a user hits fast forward or rewind. | | volume | Number | 1 | A number, between 0 and 1, representing the initial volume of the player. | | muted | Boolean | false | Whether to start playback muted. If the muted attribute is present on a <video> or <audio> element, this will be automatically set to true. | | clickToPlay | Boolean | true | Click (or tap) of the video container will toggle play/pause. | | disableContextMenu | Boolean | true | Disable right click menu on video to help as very primitive obfuscation to prevent downloads of content. | | hideControls | Boolean | true | Hide video controls automatically after 2s of no mouse or focus movement, on control element blur (tab out), on playback start or entering fullscreen. As soon as the mouse is moved, a control element is focused or playback is paused, the controls reappear instantly. | | resetOnEnd | Boolean | false | Reset the playback to the start once playback is complete. | | keyboard | Object | { focused: true, global: false } | Enable keyboard shortcuts for focused players only or globally | | tooltips | Object | { controls: false, seek: true } | controls: Display control labels as tooltips on :hover & :focus (by default, the labels are screen reader only). seek: Display a seek tooltip to indicate on click where the media would seek to. | | duration | Number | null | Specify a custom duration for media. | | displayDuration | Boolean | true | Displays the duration of the media on the "metadataloaded" event (on startup) in the current time display. This will only work if the preload attribute is not set to none (or is not set at all) and you choose not to display the duration (see controls option). | | invertTime | Boolean | true | Display the current time as a countdown rather than an incremental counter. | | toggleInvert | Boolean | true | Allow users to click to toggle the above. | | listeners | Object | null | Allows binding of event listeners to the controls before the default handlers. See the defaults.js for available listeners. If your handler prevents default on the event (event.preventDefault()), the default handler will not fire. | | captions | Object | { active: false, language: auto, update: false } | active: Toggles if captions should be active by default. language: Sets the default language to load (if available). auto uses the browser language. update: Listen to changes to tracks and update menu. This is needed for some streaming libraries, but can result in unselectable language options). | | fullscreen | Object | { enabled: true, fallback: true, iosNative: false } | enabled: Toggles whether fullscreen should be enabled. fallback: Allow fallback to a full-window solution. iosNative: whether to use native iOS fullscreen when entering fullscreen (no custom controls) | | ratio | String | 16:9 | The aspect ratio you want to use for embedded players. | | storage | Object | { enabled: true, key: plyr } | enabled: Allow use of local storage to store user settings. key: The key name to use. | | speed | Object | { selected: 1, options: [0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2] } | selected: The default speed for playback. options: Options to display in the menu. Most browsers will refuse to play slower than 0.5. | | quality | Object | { default: default, options: [hd2160, hd1440, hd1080, hd720, large, medium, small, tiny, default] } | Currently only supported by YouTube. default is the default quality level, determined by YouTube. options are the options to display. | | loop | Object | { active: false } | active: Whether to loop the current video. If the loop attribute is present on a <video> or <audio> element, this will be automatically set to true This is an object to support future functionality. | | ads | Object | { enabled: false, publisherId: } | enabled: Whether to enable vi.ai ads. publisherId: Your unique vi.ai publisher ID. | Vimeo only API There are methods, setters and getters on a Plyr object. Object The easiest way to access the Plyr object is to set the return value from your call to the constructor to a variable. For example: javascript const player = new Plyr(#player, { /* options */ }); You can also access the object through any events: javascript element.addEventListener(ready, event => { const player = event.detail.plyr; }); Methods Example method use: javascript player.play(); // Start playback player.fullscreen.enter(); // Enter fullscreen | Method | Parameters | Description | | ------------------------ | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | play()¹ | - | Start playback. | | pause() | - | Pause playback. | | togglePlay(toggle) | Boolean | Toggle playback, if no parameters are passed, it will toggle based on current status. | | stop() | - | Stop playback and reset to start. | | restart() | - | Restart playback. | | rewind(seekTime) | Number | Rewind playback by the specified seek time. If no parameter is passed, the default seek time will be used. | | forward(seekTime) | Number | Fast forward by the specified seek time. If no parameter is passed, the default seek time will be used. | | increaseVolume(step) | Number | Increase volume by the specified step. If no parameter is passed, the default step will be used. | | decreaseVolume(step) | Number | Increase volume by the specified step. If no parameter is passed, the default step will be used. | | toggleCaptions(toggle) | Boolean | Toggle captions display. If no parameter is passed, it will toggle based on current status. | | fullscreen.enter() | - | Enter fullscreen. If fullscreen is not supported, a fallback "full window/viewport" is used instead. | | fullscreen.exit() | - | Exit fullscreen. | | fullscreen.toggle() | - | Toggle fullscreen. | | airplay() | - | Trigger the airplay dialog on supported devices. | | toggleControls(toggle) | Boolean | Toggle the controls (video only). Takes optional truthy value to force it on/off. | | on(event, function) | String, Function | Add an event listener for the specified event. | | once(event, function) | String, Function | Add an event listener for the specified event once. | | off(event, function) | String, Function | Remove an event listener for the specified event. | | supports(type) | String | Check support for a mime type. | | destroy() | - | Destroy the instance and garbage collect any elements. | For HTML5 players, play() will return a Promise in some browsers - WebKit and Mozilla according to MDN at time of writing. Getters and Setters Example setters: javascript player.volume = 0.5; // Sets volume at 50% player.currentTime = 10; // Seeks to 10 seconds Example getters: javascript player.volume; // 0.5; player.currentTime; // 10 player.fullscreen.active; // false; | Property | Getter | Setter | Description | | -------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | | isHTML5 | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player is HTML5. | | isEmbed | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player is an embedded player. | | playing | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player is playing. | | paused | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player is paused. | | stopped | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player is stopped. | | ended | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player has finished playback. | | buffered | ✓ | - | Returns a float between 0 and 1 indicating how much of the media is buffered | | currentTime | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the currentTime for the player. The setter accepts a float in seconds. | | seeking | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player is seeking. | | duration | ✓ | - | Returns the duration for the current media. | | volume | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the volume for the player. The setter accepts a float between 0 and 1. | | muted | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the muted state of the player. The setter accepts a boolean. | | hasAudio | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current media has an audio track. | | speed | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the speed for the player. The setter accepts a value in the options specified in your config. Generally the minimum should be 0.5. | | quality¹ | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the quality for the player. The setter accepts a value from the options specified in your config. | | loop | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the current loop state of the player. The setter accepts a boolean. | | source | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the current source for the player. The setter accepts an object. See source setter below for examples. | | poster | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the current poster image for the player. The setter accepts a string; the URL for the updated poster image. | | autoplay | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the autoplay state of the player. The setter accepts a boolean. | | currentTrack | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the caption track by index. -1 means the track is missing or captions is not active | | language | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the preferred captions language for the player. The setter accepts an ISO two-letter language code. Support for the languages is dependent on the captions you include. If your captions dont have any language data, or if you have multiple tracks with the same language, you may want to use currentTrack instead. | | fullscreen.active | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player is in fullscreen mode. | | fullscreen.enabled | ✓ | - | Returns a boolean indicating if the current player has fullscreen enabled. | | pip | ✓ | ✓ | Gets or sets the picture-in-picture state of the player. The setter accepts a boolean. This currently only supported on Safari 10+ on MacOS Sierra+ and iOS 10+. | YouTube only. HTML5 will follow. HTML5 only The .source setter This allows changing the player source and type on the fly. Video example: javascript player.source = { type: video, title: Example title, sources: [ { src: /path/to/movie.mp4, type: video/mp4, }, { src: /path/to/movie.webm, type: video/webm, }, ], poster: /path/to/poster.jpg, tracks: [ { kind: captions, label: English, srclang: en, src: /path/to/captions.en.vtt, default: true, }, { kind: captions, label: French, srclang: fr, src: /path/to/captions.fr.vtt, }, ], }; Audio example: javascript player.source = { type: audio, title: Example title, sources: [ { src: /path/to/audio.mp3, type: audio/mp3, }, { src: /path/to/audio.ogg, type: audio/ogg, }, ], }; YouTube example: javascript player.source = { type: video, sources: [ { src: bTqVqk7FSmY, provider: youtube, }, ], }; Note: src can be the video ID or URL Vimeo example javascript player.source = { type: video, sources: [ { src: 143418951, provider: vimeo, }, ], }; Note: src property for YouTube and Vimeo can either be the video ID or the whole URL. | Property | Type | Description | | -------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | type | String | Either video or audio. Note: YouTube and Vimeo are currently not supported as audio sources. | | title | String | Optional. Title of the new media. Used for the aria-label attribute on the play button, and outer container. YouTube and Vimeo are populated automatically. | | sources | Array | This is an array of sources. For HTML5 media, the properties of this object are mapped directly to HTML attributes so more can be added to the object if required. | | poster¹ | String | The URL for the poster image (HTML5 video only). | | tracks¹ | String | An array of track objects. Each element in the array is mapped directly to a track element and any keys mapped directly to HTML attributes so as in the example above, it will render as <track kind="captions" label="English" srclang="en" src="https://cdn.selz.com/plyr/1.0/example_captions_en.vtt" default> and similar for the French version. Booleans are converted to HTML5 value-less attributes. | HTML5 only Events You can listen for events on the target element you setup Plyr on (see example under the table). Some events only apply to HTML5 audio and video. Using your reference to the instance, you can use the on() API method or addEventListener(). Access to the API can be obtained this way through the event.detail.plyr property. Heres an example: javascript player.on(ready, event => { const instance = event.detail.plyr; }); Standard Media Events | Event Type | Description | | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | progress | Sent periodically to inform interested parties of progress downloading the media. Information about the current amount of the media that has been downloaded is available in the media elements buffered attribute. | | playing | Sent when the media begins to play (either for the first time, after having been paused, or after ending and then restarting). | | play | Sent when playback of the media starts after having been paused; that is, when playback is resumed after a prior pause event. | | pause | Sent when playback is paused. | | timeupdate | The time indicated by the elements currentTime attribute has changed. | | volumechange | Sent when the audio volume changes (both when the volume is set and when the muted state is changed). | | seeking | Sent when a seek operation begins. | | seeked | Sent when a seek operation completes. | | ratechange | Sent when the playback speed changes. | | ended | Sent when playback completes. Note: This does not fire if autoplay is true. | | enterfullscreen | Sent when the player enters fullscreen mode (either the proper fullscreen or full-window fallback for older browsers). | | exitfullscreen | Sent when the player exits fullscreen mode. | | captionsenabled | Sent when captions are enabled. | | captionsdisabled | Sent when captions are disabled. | | languagechange | Sent when the caption language is changed. | | controlshidden | Sent when the controls are hidden. | | controlsshown | Sent when the controls are shown. | | ready | Triggered when the instance is ready for API calls. | HTML5 only | Event Type | Description | | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | loadstart | Sent when loading of the media begins. | | loadeddata | The first frame of the media has finished loading. | | loadedmetadata | The medias metadata has finished loading; all attributes now contain as much useful information as theyre going to. | | canplay | Sent when enough data is available that the media can be played, at least for a couple of frames. This corresponds to the HAVE_ENOUGH_DATA readyState. | | canplaythrough | Sent when the ready state changes to CAN_PLAY_THROUGH, indicating that the entire media can be played without interruption, assuming the download rate remains at least at the current level. Note: Manually setting the currentTime will eventually fire a canplaythrough event in firefox. Other browsers might not fire this event. | | stalled | Sent when the user agent is trying to fetch media data, but data is unexpectedly not forthcoming. | | waiting | Sent when the requested operation (such as playback) is delayed pending the completion of another operation (such as a seek). | | emptied | he media has become empty; for example, this event is sent if the media has already been loaded (or partially loaded), and the load() method is called to reload it. | | cuechange | Sent when a TextTrack has changed the currently displaying cues. | | error | Sent when an error occurs. The elements error attribute contains more information. | YouTube only | Event Type | Description | | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | statechange | The state of the player has changed. The code can be accessed via event.detail.code. Possible values are -1: Unstarted, 0: Ended, 1: Playing, 2: Paused, 3: Buffering, 5: Video cued. See the YouTube Docs for more information. | | qualitychange | The quality of playback has changed. | | qualityrequested | A change to playback quality has been requested. Note: A change to quality can only be requested via the API. There is no guarantee the quality will change to the level requested. You should listen to the qualitychange event for true changes. | Note: These events also bubble up the DOM. The event target will be the container element. Some event details borrowed from MDN. Embeds YouTube and Vimeo are currently supported and function much like a HTML5 video. Similar events and API methods are available for all types. However if you wish to access the APIs directly. You can do so via the embed property of your player object - e.g. player.embed. You can then use the relevant methods from the third party APIs. More info on the respective APIs here: YouTube iframe API Reference Vimeo player.js Reference Note: Not all API methods may work 100%. Your mileage may vary. Its better to use the Plyr API where possible. Shortcuts By default, a player will bind the following keyboard shortcuts when it has focus. If you have the global option to true and theres only one player in the document then the shortcuts will work when any element has focus, apart from an element that requires input. | Key | Action | | ---------- | -------------------------------------- | | 0 to 9 | Seek from 0 to 90% respectively | | space | Toggle playback | | K | Toggle playback | | ← | Seek backward by the seekTime option | | → | Seek forward by the seekTime option | | ↑ | Increase volume | | ↓ | Decrease volume | | M | Toggle mute | | F | Toggle fullscreen | | C | Toggle captions | | L | Toggle loop | Fullscreen Fullscreen in Plyr is supported by all browsers that currently support it. Browser support Plyr supports the last 2 versions of most modern browsers. | Browser | Supported | | ------------- | ------------- | | Safari | ✓ | | Mobile Safari | ✓¹ | | Firefox | ✓ | | Chrome | ✓ | | Opera | ✓ | | Edge | ✓ | | IE11 | ✓³ | | IE10 | ✓²³ | Mobile Safari on the iPhone forces the native player for <video> unless the playsinline attribute is present. Volume controls are also disabled as they are handled device wide. Native player used (no support for <progress> or <input type="range">) but the API is supported. No native fullscreen support, fallback can be used (see options). Polyfills required. See below. Polyfills Plyr uses ES6 which isnt supported in all browsers quite yet. This means some features will need to be polyfilled to be available otherwise youll run into issues. Weve elected to not burden the ~90% of users that do support these features with extra JS and instead leave polyfilling to you to work out based on your needs. The easiest method Ive found is to use polyfill.io which provides polyfills based on user agent. This is the method the demo uses. Checking for support You can use the static method to check for support. For example javascript const supported = Plyr.supported(video, html5, true); The arguments are: Media type (audio or video) Provider (html5, youtube or vimeo) Whether the player has the playsinline attribute (only applicable to iOS 10+) Disable support programatically The enabled option can be used to disable certain User Agents. For example, if you dont want to use Plyr for smartphones, you could use: javascript { enabled: /Android|webOS|iPhone|iPad|iPod|BlackBerry/i.test(navigator.userAgent); } If a User Agent is disabled but supports <video> and <audio> natively, it will use the native player. RangeTouch Some touch browsers (particularly Mobile Safari on iOS) seem to have issues with <input type="range"> elements whereby touching the track to set the value doesnt work and sliding the thumb can be tricky. To combat this, Ive created RangeTouch which Id recommend including in your solution. Its a tiny script with a nice benefit for users on touch devices. Issues If you find anything weird with Plyr, please let us know using the GitHub issues tracker. Author Plyr is developed by @sam_potts / sampotts.me with help from the awesome contributors Donate Plyr costs money to run, not only my time. I donate my time for free as I enjoy building Plyr but unfortunately have to pay for domains, hosting, and more. Any help with costs is appreciated... Donate via Patron Donate via PayPal Mentions ProductHunt The Changelog HTML5 Weekly #177 Responsive Design #149 Web Design Weekly #174 Hacker News Web Platform Daily LayerVault Designer News The Treehouse Show #131 noupe.com Used by Selz.com Peugeot.fr Peugeot.de TomTom.com DIGBMX Grime Archive koel - A personal music streaming server that works. Oscar Radio Sparkk TV Let me know on Twitter I can add you to the above list. Itd be awesome to see how youre using Plyr :-) Useful links and credits Credit to the PayPal HTML5 Video player from which Plyrs caption functionality was originally ported from: PayPals Accessible HTML5 Video Player An awesome guide for Plyr in Japanese! by @arayutw Thanks Massive thanks to Fastly for providing the CDN services. Massive thanks to Sentry for providing the logging services for the demo site. Copyright and License The MIT license