Final Update Its been a while since we made any updates to TrumpScript, and we just wanted to make it official that our development on this project has stopped and that we will no longer be accepting issues or pull requests on this repo. Frankly, this joke isnt funny anymore. Rather than spend your time beating the "Trump is ridiculous" meme to death, please actually do something instead and donate to: American Civil Liberties Union National Resources Defense Council * Planned Parenthood TrumpScript Make Python great again Mission TrumpScript is a language based upon the illustrious Donald Trump. As the undeniably best US President, we found that the current field of programming languages does not include any that Trumps glorious golden combover would approve of. TrumpScript is our solution to this. Its the programming language Trump would approve of. Just like he is going to make America great again, we hope our efforts will make programming great again. Installation To use, download the .zip and extract the contents or clone the repository by typing bash git clone https://github.com/samshadwell/TrumpScript.git Add the TrumpScript root directory to your system PATH using one of the two following techniques Temporary: Write export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/TrumpScript/bin to terminal. Permanent: Append export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/TrumpScript/bin to the end of your ~/.bashrc file. Usage Write a TrumpScript file following the syntax weve specified (good luck). Execute TRUMP /path/to/trumpscript/file.tr Enjoy the wonderful world of TrumpScript! Features Our language includes several convenient features, perfect for any aspiring Presidential candidate including: No floating point numbers, only integers. America never does anything halfway. All numbers must be strictly greater than 1 million. The small stuff is inconsequential to us. There are no import statements allowed. All code has to be home-grown and American made. Instead of True and False, we have the keywords fact and lie. Only the most popular English words, Trumps favorite words, and current politician names can be used as variable names. Error messages are mostly quotes directly taken from Trump himself. All programs must end with America is great. Our language will automatically correct Forbes $4.5B to $10B. In its raw form, TrumpScript is not compatible with Windows, because Trump isnt the type of guy to believe in PC. TrumpScript boycotts OS X and all Apple products until such time as Apple gives cellphone info to authorities regarding radical Islamic terrorist couple from Cal. The language is completely case insensitive. If the running computer is from China, TrumpScript will not compile. We dont want them stealing our American technological secrets. By constructing a wall (providing the --Wall flag), TrumpScript will refuse to run on machines with Mexican locales Warns you if you have any Communists masquerading as legitimate "SSL Certificates" from China on your system. Wont run in root mode because America doesnt need your help being great. Trump is all we need. Easy to type with small hands If you find you cant get any TrumpScript to run on your computer (probably because we disallow the two most popular operating systems), you can specify the --shut_up flag to let the interpreter know you just want your code to run, damn it. Grammar The grammar of the language is fairly convoluted, but heres a taste of the enlightened decisions weve made. Arithmetic operators: + and plus do addition - and minus do subtraction * and times do multiplication / and over do division <, less, fewer, and smaller all evaluate to less than >, more, greater, and larger all evaluate to greater than Control flow: Use , and ; to treat compound statements as a single evaluation, similar to how () are used in other languages Use : and ! to define the scope of loops and if statements, similar to how {} is used in Java if, else if, and else do what you think they do not, and, and or do what you expect The exciting parts: Strings are denoted by double quotes ("I love Trump") The is and are keywords are used both to check for equality, and for assignment. To use for assignment, say something like Trump is great or Democrats are dumb. To use to check for equality, do the same but append a ?. For example, you may need to ask yourself Trump is "the best"? (although we all know that would evaluate to fact anyway) Assignment can also be done via the make keyword. E.g. Make America great assigns the value of the variable great to America Printing to stdout can be done via tell or say While loops are denoted via as long as. And thats the only type of loop you need anyway If a word (so anything that could be a variable name) is deemed unnecessary by the compiler, its simply thrown away. So you can make truly self documenting code, or code that appear to read very very similarly to real speeches by the big man himself. You can find some interesting examples in our test/test_files directory Example: What are we in this country Hillary speaks nothing but lies But look at me I came to this election to make guys believe again believe in fact if, all of us real lies the light; : say "VOTE TRUMP" ! but I know we should be free else the result will be bad: all the work of George Washington was for nothing so this election say "Hello World" say "TRUMP FOR PRESIDENT"! America is great. But most importantly, Trump doesnt like to talk about his failures. So a lot of the time your code will fail, and it will do so silently. Just think of debugging as a fun little game. Because We Pretend Were Good People If this page entertained you, consider making a donation to your favorite charity or political campaign. Im a fan of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, donate here Theres also Hillary Clinton, and of course Donald Trump himself. Because Weve Sold Out If youre feeling extra generous, you can also buy us a beer (or two) for more brainstorming because our small loan of a million dollars wasnt enough: Paypal: paypal.me/Shadwell Bitcoin: 1AKK76WNmQheCYgZEksB61Jyp1voYxN63v Hey, this repo seems pretty dead... This project is (probably) not totally dead, and well get back to it eventually, but hold tight for now, since were all busy students full-time. But by all means, please submit a pull request! Were all just shocked this has blown up so much, and wed love to get this language implemented "properly!" Media Hey, cool, we got an article on Inverse written about us! Also Motherboard And The Verge And one on Gizmodo And TheNextWeb And Mashable And The Washington Post Geekwire UPI Neowin History Created for HackRice (hack.rice.edu) by: Sam Shadwell, @samshadwell Dan Korn, @DnlRKorn Chris Brown, @CryoBrown Cannon Lewis, @cannon10100