Monolog - Logging for PHP Monolog sends your logs to files, sockets, inboxes, databases and various web services. See the complete list of handlers below. Special handlers allow you to build advanced logging strategies. This library implements the PSR-3 interface that you can type-hint against in your own libraries to keep a maximum of interoperability. You can also use it in your applications to make sure you can always use another compatible logger at a later time. As of 1.11.0 Monolog public APIs will also accept PSR-3 log levels. Internally Monolog still uses its own level scheme since it predates PSR-3. Installation Install the latest version with bash $ composer require monolog/monolog Basic Usage ```php <?php use Monolog\Logger; use Monolog\Handler\StreamHandler; // create a log channel $log = new Logger(name); $log->pushHandler(new StreamHandler(path/to/your.log, Logger::WARNING)); // add records to the log $log->warning(Foo); $log->error(Bar); ``` Documentation Usage Instructions Handlers, Formatters and Processors Utility Classes Extending Monolog Log Record Structure Third Party Packages Third party handlers, formatters and processors are listed in the wiki. You can also add your own there if you publish one. About Requirements Monolog 2.x works with PHP 7.1 or above, use Monolog ^1.0 for PHP 5.3+ support. Submitting bugs and feature requests Bugs and feature request are tracked on GitHub Framework Integrations Frameworks and libraries using PSR-3 can be used very easily with Monolog since it implements the interface. Symfony2 comes out of the box with Monolog. Silex comes out of the box with Monolog. Laravel 4 & 5 come out of the box with Monolog. Lumen comes out of the box with Monolog. PPI comes out of the box with Monolog. CakePHP is usable with Monolog via the cakephp-monolog plugin. Slim is usable with Monolog via the Slim-Monolog log writer. XOOPS 2.6 comes out of the box with Monolog. Aura.Web_Project comes out of the box with Monolog. Nette Framework can be used with Monolog via Kdyby/Monolog extension. Proton Micro Framework comes out of the box with Monolog. FuelPHP comes out of the box with Monolog. Equip Framework comes out of the box with Monolog. Yii 2 is usable with Monolog via the yii2-monolog or yii2-psr-log-target plugins. Hawkbit Micro Framework comes out of the box with Monolog. Author Jordi Boggiano - j.boggiano@seld.be - http://twitter.com/seldaek See also the list of contributors which participated in this project. License Monolog is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details Acknowledgements This library is heavily inspired by Pythons Logbook library, although most concepts have been adjusted to fit to the PHP world.