Select2 Select2 is a jQuery-based replacement for select boxes. It supports searching, remote data sets, and pagination of results. To get started, checkout examples and documentation at https://select2.org/ Use cases Enhancing native selects with search. Enhancing native selects with a better multi-select interface. Loading data from JavaScript: easily load items via AJAX and have them searchable. Nesting optgroups: native selects only support one level of nesting. Select2 does not have this restriction. Tagging: ability to add new items on the fly. Working with large, remote datasets: ability to partially load a dataset based on the search term. Paging of large datasets: easy support for loading more pages when the results are scrolled to the end. Templating: support for custom rendering of results and selections. Browser compatibility IE 8+ Chrome 8+ Firefox 10+ Safari 3+ Opera 10.6+ Select2 is automatically tested on the following browsers. Usage You can source Select2 directly from a CDN like JSDliver or CDNJS, download it from this GitHub repo, or use one of the integrations below. Integrations Third party developers have created plugins for platforms which allow Select2 to be integrated more natively and quickly. For many platforms, additional plugins are not required because Select2 acts as a standard <select> box. Plugins Django django-autocomplete-light django-easy-select2 django-select2 Meteor - meteor-select2 Ruby on Rails - select2-rails Wicket - wicketstuff-select2 Yii 2 - yii2-widget-select2 Themes Bootstrap 3 - select2-bootstrap-theme Flat UI - select2-flat-theme Metro UI - select2-metro Missing an integration? Modify this README and make a pull request back here to Select2 on GitHub. Internationalization (i18n) Select2 supports multiple languages by simply including the right language JS file (dist/js/i18n/it.js, dist/js/i18n/nl.js, etc.) after dist/js/select2.js. Missing a language? Just copy src/js/select2/i18n/en.js, translate it, and make a pull request back to Select2 here on GitHub. Documentation The documentation for Select2 is available through GitHub Pages and is located within this repository in the docs folder. Community You can find out about the different ways to get in touch with the Select2 community at the Select2 community page. Copyright and license The license is available within the repository in the LICENSE file.