WTF A personal terminal-based dashboard utility, designed for displaying infrequently-needed, but very important, daily data. Quick Start Download and run the latest binary or install from source: bash go get -u github.com/senorprogrammer/wtf cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/senorprogrammer/wtf make install make run Note: WTF is only compatible with Go versions 1.9.2 or later. It currently does not compile with gccgo. Documentation See https://wtfutil.com for the definitive documentation. Heres some short-cuts: Installation Configuration Module Documentation Contributing Please read CONTRIBUTING.md for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests. Adding Dependencies Dependency management in WTF is handled by dep. See that page for installation and usage details. If the work youre doing requires the addition of a new dependency, please be sure to use dep to vendor your dependencies. Contributors Thanks goes to these wonderful people: ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section prettier-ignore | Chris Cummer | Hossein Mehrabi | FengYa | deltax | Bill Keenan | June S | liyiheng | | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | | baustinanki | lucus lee | Mike Lloyd | Sergio Rubio | Farhad Farahi | Lasantha Kularatne | Mark Old | | flw | David Barda | Geoff Lee | George Opritescu | Grazfather | Michael Cordell | Patrick José Pereira | | sherod taylor | Andrew Scott | Anand Sudhir Prayaga | Lassi Piironen | BlackWebWolf | andrewzolotukhin | Leon Stigter | | Amr Tamimi | Jagdeep Singh | Lineu Felipe💻 | ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END This project follows the all-contributors specification. Contributions of any kind welcome! Acknowledgments The inspiration for WTF came from Monica Dinculescus tiny-care-terminal. Many thanks to Lendesk for supporting this project by providing time to develop it. The following open-source libraries were used in the creation of WTF. Many thanks to all these developers. calendar config go-gerrit go-github goreleaser newrelic openweathermap tcell tview