Motto: "Every business should have a mobile detection script to detect mobile readers." About Mobile Detect is a lightweight PHP class for detecting mobile devices (including tablets). It uses the User-Agent string combined with specific HTTP headers to detect the mobile environment. Your websites content strategy is important! You need a complete toolkit to deliver an experience that is optimized, fast and relevant to your users. Mobile Detect class is a server-side detection tool that can help you with your RWD strategy, it is not a replacement for CSS3 media queries or other forms of client-side feature detection. Were committed to make Mobile_Detect the best open-source mobile detection resource and this is why before each release were running unit tests, we also research and update the detection rules on daily and weekly basis. See also the history of the project. Announcements For 2.x branch we are only integrating new regexes and User-Agents for our tests. On 2.x releases we are focusing on new tablets only. All the pull requests about TVs, bots or optimizations will be closed and analyzed after 3.0.0-beta is released. Still working on 3.0.0 branch to provide you with device detection! Were really excited on this one! We would like to speed this up, but life and family gets in the way ;) Many thanks JetBrains team for providing licenses for PHPStorm and DataGrip. Install Download and include manually Use this to quickly test the demo. Download latest release Mobile_Detect.php php require_once "libs/Mobile_Detect.php"; Install as a composer package Use this method to get continuous updates. composer require mobiledetect/mobiledetectlib or include the dependency in the composer.json file: json { "require": { "mobiledetect/mobiledetectlib": "^2.8" } } Demo :iphone: Live demo! Code examples Contribute Submit a PR Submit a pull request but before make sure you read how to contribute guide. Donate |Paypal| |------| |Donate :+1:| Im currently paying for hosting and spend a lot of my family time to maintain the project and planning the future releases. I would highly appreciate any money donations that will keep the research going. Special thanks to the community :+1: for donations, JetBrains team for the continuous support and Dragos Gavrila who contributed with the logo. Modules, plugins, ports Submit new module, plugin, port :point_right: Keep Mobile_Detect.php class in a separate module and do NOT include it in your script core because of the high frequency of updates. :point_right: When including the class into you web application or module always use include_once ../path/to/Mobile_Detect.php to prevent conflicts. JavaScript mobile-detect.js - A JavaScript port of Mobile-Detect class. Made by Heinrich Goebl. Varnish Cache Varnish Mobile Detect - Drop-in varnish solution to mobile user detection based on the Mobile-Detect library. Made by willemk. mobiledetect2vcl - Python script to transform the Mobile Detect JSON database into an UA-based mobile detection VCL subroutine easily integrable in any Varnish Cache configuration. Made by Carlos Abalde. LUA mobile-detect.lua is a port of Mobile-Detect to Lua for NGINX HTTP servers. Follows closely to mobile-detect.js. Supports all methods that server-side mobile-detect.js supports. Fully unit-tested and synced with Travis CI (Build Passing badge included). Made by Mark Walters. PHP WordPress Mobile Detect for WordPress - WordPress has a built-in function (wp_is_mobile()) to detect mobile devices. There is (at least) one catch, though. It considers iPad (iPad pro, and any tablet) as a mobile. So, this 3rd party module changes the way wp_is_mobile() works with the help of Mobile Detect PHP library! Made by Pothi Kalimuthu WordPress Mobile Detect - Gives you the ability to wrap that infographic in a [notdevice][/notdevice] shortcode so at the server level WordPress will decide to show that content only if the user is NOT on a phone or tablet. Made by Jesse Friedman. mobble - provides mobile related conditional functions for your site. e.g. is_iphone(), is_mobile() and is_tablet(). Made by Scott Evans. WordPress Responsage - A small WordPress theme plugin that allows you to make your images responsive. Made by Adrian Ciaschetti. WP247 Body Classes - Add unique classes to the body tag for easy styling based on various attributes (archive, user, post, mobile) and various WordPress "is" functions. Mobile attributes include type of device, Operating System, Browser, etc. Examples: .is-mobile, .is-not-mobile, .is-tablet, .is-ios, .is-not-ios, .is-androidos, .is-chromebrowser. Made by wescleveland56. Adaptive Content for WordPress provides the most intuitive set of shortcodes for including/excluding content on mobile devices, tablets desktops and other more specific device parameters. This lightweight plugin lets content writers and theme authors choose when WordPress should or shouldnt show any give content item using shortcodes and quicktags or theme elements using functions. Made by AddFunc. AddFunc Mobile Detect for WordPress redirects mobile traffic to your mobile website and, basically, gives you loads of control over your mobile redirects. Made by AddFunc. Drupal Drupal Mobile Switch - The Mobile Switch Drupal module provides a automatic theme switch functionality for mobile devices, detected by Browscap or Mobile Detect. Made by Siegfried Neumann. Drupal Context Mobile Detect - This is a Drupal context module which integrates Context and PHP Mobile Detect library. Created by Artem Shymko. Drupal Mobile Detect - Lightweight mobile detect module for Drupal created by Matthew Donadio. Joomla yagendoo Joomla! Mobile Detection Plugin - Lightweight PHP plugin for Joomla! that detects a mobile browser using the Mobile Detect class. Made by yagendoo media. User Agent Detector plugin - This system plugin detects the user agent of your website visitor and sets a session variable accordingly. Based on the user agent, the plugin detects if the site is running on a desktop pc, tablet or smartphone. It can also detect if the visitor is a spider bot (search engine). Session variable that is set: ualayout. Possible values: desktop, tablet, mobile, bot. Made by @ReneKreijveld. Magento Magento helper from Optimise Web enables the use of all functions provided by Mobile Detect. Made by Kathir Vel. Magento 2 Mobile Detect Theme Change is an extension for Magento 2 that will change the theme or redirect to a different URL. Also containing a helper to check for the device type. PrestaShop PrestaShop is a free, secure and open source shopping cart platform. Mobile_Detect is included in the default package since 1.5.x. Laravel Agent is a user agent class for Laravel based on Mobile Detect with some additional functionality. Made by Jens Segers. Laravel Mobile Detect is a package that enables you to use device detection right in your Laravel Blade templates. (Utilises the well-known, constantly updated PHP mobile detection library.) Made by Barnabas Kecskes. BrowserDetect is a browser and mobile detection package, collects and wrap together the best user-agent identifiers for Laravel. Created by Varga Zsolt. Zend Framework ZF2 Mobile-Detect is a Zend Framework 2 module that provides Mobile-Detect features (Mobile_Detect class as a service, helper for views and plugin controllers). Made by neilime. ZF2 MobileDetectModule facilitates integration of a PHP MobileDetect class with some ZF2-based application. Has similar idea like the existing ZF2 Mobile-Detect module, but differs in initialization and provision routine of the actual Mobile_Detect class. Appropriate view helper and controller plugin also have different conceptions. Made by Nikola Posa. Symfony Symfony2 Mobile Detect Bundle is a bundle for detecting mobile devices, manage mobile view and redirect to the mobile and tablet version. Made by Nikolay Ivlev. Silex Mobile Detect Service Provider is a service provider to interact with Mobile detect class methods. Made by Lhassan Baazzi. Slim Framework Slim_Mobile_Detect implements Mobile_Detect lib for different responses write on Slim Framework App. ExpressionEngine EE2 Detect Mobile is a lightweight PHP plugin for EE2 that detects a mobile browser using the Mobile Detect class. Made by Gareth Davies. Yii Framework Yii Extension - Mobile detect plugin for Yii framework. Made by Alexey Salnikov. Yii Extension - Mobile detect component for Yii framework 1.x version which supports composer package manager. Made by Candas Minareci. Yii2 Device Detect - Yii2 extension for Mobile-Detect library. Made by Alexander Nestorov. CakePHP CakePHP MobileDetect is a plugin component for CakePHP 2.x. Made by Gregory Gaskill. FuelPHP Special Agent is a FuelPHP package which uses php-mobile-detect to determine whether a device is mobile or not. It overrides the Fuelphp Agent class its methods. Made by Robbie Bardjin. TYPO3 px_mobiledetect is an extension that helps to detect visitors mobile device class (if thats tablet or mobile device like smartphone). Made by Alexander Tretyak. Other PageCache is a lightweight PHP library for full page cache, with built-in Mobile-Detect support. Made by Muhammed Mamedov. Statamic CMS Mobile Detect is a plugin. Made by Sergei Filippov of Haiku Lab. Kohana Mobile Detect is an example of implementation of Mobile_Detect class with Kohana framework. Written by Luiz Alberto S. Ribeiro. MemHT is a Free PHP CMS and Blog that permit the creation and the management online of websites with few and easy steps. Has the class included in the core. concrete5 is a CMS that is free and open source. The library is included in the core. engine7 is PHP Open Source Framework. The Mobile_Detect class is included in the engine. Zikula is a free and open-source Content Management Framework, which allows you to run impressive websites and build powerful online applications. The core uses Mobile-Detect to switch to a special Mobile theme, using jQueryMobile. UserAgentInfo is a PHP class for parsing user agent strings (HTTP_USER_AGENT). Includes mobile checks, bot checks, browser types/versions and more. Based on browscap, Mobile_Detect and ua-parser. Created for high traffic websites and fast batch processing. Made by quentin389. LJ Mobile Detect is a simple implementation of Mobile Detect for Craft CMS. Made by Lewis Jenkins. Detect Craft is a Craft CMS wrapper for the Mobile_Detect library. Made by Mikkel Rummelhoff. Grav Plugin Mobile Detect is a simple implementation of Mobile Detect for Grav CMS. Made by Dimitri Longo. Mobile_Detect module for UliCMS. Made by derUli. Perl MobileDetect.pm is a Perl module for Mobile Detect. Made by Sebastian Enger. Python pymobiledetect - Mobile detect python package. Made by Bas van Oostveen. Ruby mobile_detect.rb is a Ruby gem using the JSON data exposed by the php project and implementing a basic subset of the API (as much as can be done by the exposed data). Made by Karthik T. Go GoMobileDetect is a Go port of Mobile Detect class. Made by https://github.com/Shaked. LUA ua-lua is a small lib written in LUA providing device type detection. ua-lua is detecting mobile or tablet devices based on user-agent inside nginx daemon. Made by Frédéric Robinet. .Net mobile-detect is a .Net partial port written in C#. Made by Valentin Dide. ColdFusion MobileDetect is a CFC port of the Mobile_Detect PHP Library. Made by Giancarlo Gomez. Experiments :bulb: Mobile Detect Fast (See: #474) is a class to increase the performance of Mobile Detect lib. Made by LanaGuani.