RailsAdmin RailsAdmin is a Rails engine that provides an easy-to-use interface for managing your data. Announcements [Action required] Security issue RailsAdmin prior to 1.3.0 have been reported to have XSS vulnerability. We strongly recommend that you upgrade RailsAdmin to 1.3.0 or later as soon as possible, if you are on those versions. See #2985 for the detail. Also, 1.0.0 and 1.1.0 is known to have CSRF vulnerability, too. Features CRUD any data with ease Custom actions Automatic form validation Search and filtering Export data to CSV/JSON/XML Authentication (via Devise or other) Authorization (via CanCanCan or Pundit) User action history (via PaperTrail) Supported ORMs ActiveRecord Mongoid Installation On your gemfile: gem rails_admin, ~> 1.3 Run bundle install Run rails g rails_admin:install Provide a namespace for the routes when asked Start a server rails s and administer your data at /admin. (if you chose default namespace: /admin) Configuration Global In config/initializers/rails_admin.rb: Details To begin with, you may be interested in setting up Devise, CanCanCan or Papertrail! Per model ```ruby class Ball < ActiveRecord::Base validates :name, presence: true belongs_to :player rails_admin do configure :player do label Owner of this ball: end end end ``` Details: Models, Groups, Fields Documentation https://github.com/sferik/rails_admin/wiki Demo Take RailsAdmin for a test drive with sample data. (Source code.) Support If you have a question, please check this README, the wiki, and the list of known issues. If you still have a question, you can ask the official RailsAdmin mailing list. If you think you found a bug in RailsAdmin, you can submit an issue. Supported Ruby Versions This library aims to support and is tested against the following Ruby implementations: Ruby 2.1 Ruby 2.2 Ruby 2.3 Rubinius JRuby