Shadowsocks for Android A shadowsocks client for Android, written in Kotlin. PREREQUISITES JDK 1.8 Go 1.4+ Android SDK Build Tools 27+ Android NDK r16+ BUILD You can check whether the latest commit builds under UNIX environment by checking Travis status. Building on Windows is also possible since #1570, but probably painful. Further contributions regarding building on Windows are also welcome. Set environment variable ANDROID_HOME to /path/to/android-sdk (optional) Set environment variable ANDROID_NDK_HOME to /path/to/android-ndk (default: $ANDROID_HOME/ndk-bundle) Set environment variable GOROOT_BOOTSTRAP to /path/to/go Clone the repo using git clone --recurse-submodules <repo> or update submodules using git submodule update --init --recursive Build it using Android Studio or gradle script TRANSLATE Translators can go to POEditor to help translate shadowsocks-android. Guidelines: Its okay to leave some strings untranslated if you think it should use the same string as English (US). faq_url should not be changed. If youd like to translate FAQ, submit a pull request with the translated faq.md (it should be named properly, e.g. .github/faq.zh-CN.md). Administrators will take care of the rest. Do not add/edit/remove comments. OPEN SOURCE LICENSES redsocks: APL 2.0 mbed TLS: APL 2.0 libevent: BSD tun2socks: BSD pcre: BSD libancillary: BSD shadowsocks-libev: GPLv3 overture: MIT libev: GPLv2 libsodium: ISC LICENSE Copyright (C) 2017 by Max Lv <max.c.lv@gmail.com> Copyright (C) 2017 by Mygod Studio <contact-shadowsocks-android@mygod.be> This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.