Currently in beta! While Draggable is very close to a full release, the API is still subject to change. We keep an updated CHANGELOG with every release, so when upgrading from a previous version, please check and see what has changed. Get complete control over drag and drop behaviour with Draggable! Draggable abstracts native browser events into a comprehensive API to create a custom drag and drop experience. Draggable comes with additional modules: Sortable, Droppable, Swappable. Draggable itself does not perform any sorting behaviour while dragging, but does the heavy lifting, e.g. creates mirror, emits events, manages sensor events, makes elements draggable. The additional modules are built on top of Draggable and therefore provide a similar API interface, for more information read the documentation below. Features Works with native drag, mouse, touch and force touch events Can extend dragging behaviour by hooking into draggables event life cycle Can extend drag detection by adding sensors to draggable The library is targeted ES6 first Table of Contents Install Documentation Contributing Roadmap Copyright Install You can install the library via npm. npm install @shopify/draggable --save or via yarn: yarn add @shopify/draggable or via CDN html <!-- Entire bundle --> <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@shopify/draggable@1.0.0-beta.7/lib/draggable.bundle.js"></script> <!-- legacy bundle for older browsers (IE11) --> <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@shopify/draggable@1.0.0-beta.7/lib/draggable.bundle.legacy.js"></script> <!-- Draggable only --> <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@shopify/draggable@1.0.0-beta.7/lib/draggable.js"></script> <!-- Sortable only --> <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@shopify/draggable@1.0.0-beta.7/lib/sortable.js"></script> <!-- Droppable only --> <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@shopify/draggable@1.0.0-beta.7/lib/droppable.js"></script> <!-- Swappable only --> <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@shopify/draggable@1.0.0-beta.7/lib/swappable.js"></script> <!-- Plugins only --> <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@shopify/draggable@1.0.0-beta.7/lib/plugins.js"></script> Browser Compatibility | | | | | | | | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | | Latest ✔ | Latest ✔ | 11+ ✔ | Latest ✔ | Latest ✔ | Latest ✔ | Bundle sizes | Package name | ES6 bundle sizes | ES5 bundle sizes | | -------------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | | draggable.bundle.js | ~11kb | ~19.2kb | | draggable.bundle.legacy.js | ~19.2kb | ~25.63kb | | draggable.js | ~8.06kb | ~15.36kb | | sortable.js | ~8.93kb | ~16.51kb | | swappable.js | ~8.56kb | ~16.14kb | | droppable.js | ~8.8kb | ~16.55kb | | plugins.js | ~2.37kb | ~8.76kb | | plugins/collidable.js | ~1.45kb | ~7.81kb | | plugins/snappable.js | ~1.19kb | ~6.94kb | | plugins/swap-animation.js | ~1kb | ~6.65kb | Documentation You can find the documentation for each module within their respective directories. Draggable DragEvent DraggableEvent MirrorEvent Plugins Announcement Focusable Mirror Scrollable Sensors DragSensor ForceTouchSensor MouseSensor Sensor SensorEvent TouchSensor Droppable DroppableEvent Plugins Collidable ResizeMirror Snappable SwapAnimation Sortable SortableEvent Swappable SwappableEvent Running examples To run the examples project locally, simply run the following from the draggable root: yarn && yarn start This will start a server that hosts the contents of examples/. It also watches for file changes from both src/ and examples/src and reloads the browser. Contributing Contributions are more than welcome, the code base is still new and needs more love. For more information, please checkout the contributing document. Roadmap We are currently working on v1.0.0-beta.8. Check out the project board to see tasks and follow progress on the release. Any Pull Requests should be pointed against the feature branch v1.0.0-beta.8. Related resources Ember CLI Shim on Github by @timrourke Ember CLI Shim on NPM by @timrourke Copyright Copyright (c) 2018 Shopify. See LICENSE.md for further details.