Liquid template engine Contributing guidelines Version history Liquid documentation from Shopify Liquid Wiki at GitHub Website Introduction Liquid is a template engine which was written with very specific requirements: It has to have beautiful and simple markup. Template engines which dont produce good looking markup are no fun to use. It needs to be non evaling and secure. Liquid templates are made so that users can edit them. You dont want to run code on your server which your users wrote. It has to be stateless. Compile and render steps have to be separate so that the expensive parsing and compiling can be done once and later on you can just render it passing in a hash with local variables and objects. Why you should use Liquid You want to allow your users to edit the appearance of your application but dont want them to run insecure code on your server. You want to render templates directly from the database. You like smarty (PHP) style template engines. You need a template engine which does HTML just as well as emails. You dont like the markup of your current templating engine. What does it look like? ```html {% for product in products %} {{ product.name }} Only {{ product.price | price }} {{ product.description | prettyprint | paragraph }} </li> {% endfor %} ``` How to use Liquid Install Liquid by adding gem liquid to your gemfile. Liquid supports a very simple API based around the Liquid::Template class. For standard use you can just pass it the content of a file and call render with a parameters hash. ruby @template = Liquid::Template.parse("hi {{name}}") # Parses and compiles the template @template.render(name => tobi) # => "hi tobi" Error Modes Setting the error mode of Liquid lets you specify how strictly you want your templates to be interpreted. Normally the parser is very lax and will accept almost anything without error. Unfortunately this can make it very hard to debug and can lead to unexpected behaviour. Liquid also comes with a stricter parser that can be used when editing templates to give better error messages when templates are invalid. You can enable this new parser like this: ruby Liquid::Template.error_mode = :strict # Raises a SyntaxError when invalid syntax is used Liquid::Template.error_mode = :warn # Adds errors to template.errors but continues as normal Liquid::Template.error_mode = :lax # The default mode, accepts almost anything. If you want to set the error mode only on specific templates you can pass :error_mode as an option to parse: ruby Liquid::Template.parse(source, :error_mode => :strict) This is useful for doing things like enabling strict mode only in the theme editor. It is recommended that you enable :strict or :warn mode on new apps to stop invalid templates from being created. It is also recommended that you use it in the template editors of existing apps to give editors better error messages. Undefined variables and filters By default, the renderer doesnt raise or in any other way notify you if some variables or filters are missing, i.e. not passed to the render method. You can improve this situation by passing strict_variables: true and/or strict_filters: true options to the render method. When one of these options is set to true, all errors about undefined variables and undefined filters will be stored in errors array of a Liquid::Template instance. Here are some examples: ```ruby template = Liquid::Template.parse("{{x}} {{y}} {{z.a}} {{z.b}}") template.render({ x => 1, z => { a => 2 } }, { strict_variables: true }) => 1 2 # when a variable is undefined, its rendered as nil template.errors => [#, #] ``` ```ruby template = Liquid::Template.parse("{{x | filter1 | upcase}}") template.render({ x => foo }, { strict_filters: true }) => # when at least one filter in the filter chain is undefined, a whole expression is rendered as nil template.errors => [#] ``` If you want to raise on a first exception instead of pushing all of them in errors, you can use render! method: ```ruby template = Liquid::Template.parse("{{x}} {{y}}") template.render!({ x => 1}, { strict_variables: true }) => Liquid::UndefinedVariable: Liquid error: undefined variable y ```