bootstrap-select Bootstrap-select is a jQuery plugin that utilizes Bootstraps dropdown.js to style and bring additional functionality to standard select elements. HEY YOU! DO YOU WANT TO HELP? He are looking for new maintainers on this project. If you think you can help on this, please send me an email to silviomoreto@gmail.com so we can continue improving the community plugin! Demo and Documentation You can view a live demo and some examples of how to use the various options here. Bootstrap-selects documentation, included in this repo in the root directory, is built with MkDocs and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages at https://silviomoreto.github.io/bootstrap-select. The documentation may also be run locally. Bootstrap 4 Support This version currently does not support Bootstrap 4 officially. We are looking to keep it updated to the new Bootstrap version, do you want to help us? Running documentation locally If necessary, install MkDocs. From the /bootstrap-select/docs directory, run mkdocs serve in the command line. Open http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in your browser, and voilà. Learn more about using MkDocs by reading its documentation. Authors Silvio Moreto, Ana Carolina, caseyjhol, Matt Bryson, and t0xicCode. Usage Create your <select> with the .selectpicker class. html <select class="selectpicker"> <option>Mustard</option> <option>Ketchup</option> <option>Barbecue</option> </select> If you use a 1.6.3 or newer, you dont need to do anything else, as the data-api automatically picks up the <select>s with the selectpicker class. If you use an older version, you need to add the following either at the bottom of the page (after the last selectpicker), or in a $(document).ready() block. js // To style only <select>s with the selectpicker class $(.selectpicker).selectpicker(); Or js // To style all <select>s $(select).selectpicker(); Checkout the documentation for further information. CDN N.B.: The CDN is updated after the release is made public, which means that there is a delay between the publishing of a release and its availability on the CDN. Check the GitHub page for the latest release. //cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/bootstrap-select/1.12.4/css/bootstrap-select.min.css //cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/bootstrap-select/1.12.4/js/bootstrap-select.min.js //cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/bootstrap-select/1.12.4/js/i18n/defaults-*.min.js (The translation files) Bugs and feature requests Anyone and everyone is welcome to contribute. Please take a moment to review the guidelines for contributing. Make sure youre using the latest version of bootstrap-select before submitting an issue. Bug reports Feature requests Copyright and license Copyright (C) 2013-2015 bootstrap-select Licensed under the MIT license. Used by SnapAppointments Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. membermeister Solve for All EstiMATEit Convertizer Does your organization use bootstrap-select? Open an issue, and include a link and logo, and youll be added to the list.