Capture screenshots of websites in various resolutions. A good way to make sure your websites are responsive. Its speedy and generates 100 screenshots from 10 different websites in just over a minute. It can also be used to render SVG images. See pageres-cli for the command-line tool. Install $ npm install pageres PhantomJS, which is used for generating the screenshots, is installed automagically, but in some rare cases it might fail to and youll get an Error: spawn EACCES error. Download PhantomJS manually and reinstall pageres if that happens. Usage ```js const Pageres = require(pageres); const pageres = new Pageres({delay: 2}) .src(yeoman.io, [480x320, 1024x768, iphone 5s], {crop: true}) .src(todomvc.com, [1280x1024, 1920x1080]) .src(data:text/html;base64,PGgxPkZPTzwvaDE+, [1024x768]) .dest(__dirname) .run() .then(() => console.log(done)); ``` API Pageres([options]) options delay Type: number (seconds) Default: 0 Delay capturing the screenshot. Useful when the site does things after load that you want to capture. timeout Type: number (seconds) Default: 60 Number of seconds after which PhantomJS aborts the request. crop Type: boolean Default: false Crop to the set height. css Type: string Apply custom CSS to the webpage. Specify some CSS or the path to a CSS file. script Type: string Apply custom JavaScript to the webpage. Specify some JavaScript or the path to a file. cookies Type: Array<string> Object A string with the same format as a browser cookie or an object of what phantomjs.addCookie accepts. Tip Go to the website you want a cookie for and copy-paste it from Dev Tools. filename Type: string Define a customized filename using Lo-Dash templates. For example <%= date %> - <%= url %>-<%= size %><%= crop %>. Available variables: url: The URL in slugified form, eg. http://yeoman.io/blog/ becomes yeoman.io!blog size: Specified size, eg. 1024x1000 width: Width of the specified size, eg. 1024 height: Height of the specified size, eg. 1000 crop: Outputs -cropped when the crop option is true date: The current date (Y-M-d), eg. 2015-05-18 time: The current time (h-m-s), eg. 21-15-11 incrementalName Type: boolean Default: false When a file exists, append an incremental number. selector Type: string Capture a specific DOM element matching a CSS selector. hide Type: Array<string> Hide an array of DOM elements matching CSS selectors. username Type: string Username for authenticating with HTTP auth. password Type: string Password for authenticating with HTTP auth. scale Type: number Default: 1 Scale webpage n times. format Type: string Default: png Values: png, jpg Image format. userAgent Type: string Custom user agent. headers Type: Object Custom HTTP request headers. transparent Type: boolean Default: false Set background color to transparent instead of white if no background is set. pageres.src(url, sizes, options) Add a page to screenshot. url Required Type: string URL or local path to the website you want to screenshot. You can also use a data URI. sizes Required Type: Array<string> Use a <width>x<height> notation or a keyword. A keyword is a version of a device from this list. You can also pass in the w3counter keyword to use the ten most popular resolutions from w3counter. options Type: Object Options set here will take precedence over the ones set in the constructor. pageres.dest(directory) Set the destination directory. directory Type: string pageres.run() Run pageres. Returns a promise for an array of streams. pageres.on(warning, callback) Warnings with e.g. page errors. Task runners Check out grunt-pageres if youre using Grunt. For Gulp and Broccoli, just use the API directly. No need for a wrapper plugin. Built with Pageres Break Shot - Desktop app for capturing screenshots of responsive websites. Team | | ---|---|--- Sindre Sorhus | Kevin Mårtensson | Sam Verschueren License MIT © Sindre Sorhus