My open source work is supported by the community Special thanks to: Just type node.cool to go here. Check out my blog and follow me on Twitter. Contents Packages Mad science Command-line apps Functional programming HTTP Debugging / Profiling Logging Command-line utilities Build tools Hardware Templating Web frameworks Documentation Filesystem Control flow Streams Real-time Image Text Number Math Date URL Data validation Parsing Humanize Compression Network Database Testing Security Benchmarking Minifiers Authentication Authorization Email Job queues Node.js management Natural language processing Process management Automation AST Static site generators Content management systems Forum Blogging Weird Serialization Miscellaneous Resources Tutorials Discovery Articles Newsletters Videos Podcasts Books Blogs Courses Cheatsheets Tools Community Miscellaneous Packages Mad science webtorrent - Streaming torrent client for Node.js and the browser. peerflix - Streaming torrent client. dat - Real-time replication and versioning for data sets. ipfs - Distributed file system that seeks to connect all computing devices with the same system of files. stackgl - Open software ecosystem for WebGL, built on top of browserify and npm. peerwiki - All of Wikipedia on BitTorrent. peercast - Stream a torrent video to Chromecast. BitcoinJS - Clean, readable, proven Bitcoin library. Bitcore - Pure and powerful Bitcoin library. PDFKit - PDF generation library. turf - Modular geospatial processing and analysis engine. webcat - p2p pipe across the web using WebRTC that uses your GitHub private/public key for authentication. NodeOS - The first operating system powered by npm. Brain.js - Machine-learning framework. Cytoscape.js - Graph theory (a.k.a. network) modeling and analysis. Kadence - Kademlia distributed hash table. seedshot - Temporary P2P screenshot sharing from your browser. js-git - JavaScript implementation of Git. skale - High performance distributed data processing engine. xlsx - Pure JS Excel spreadsheet reader and writer. isomorphic-git - Pure JavaScript implementation of Git. Command-line apps np - Better npm publish. npm-name - Check whether a package name is available on npm. gh-home - Open the GitHub page of the repo in the current directory. npm-home - Open the npm page of a package. trash - Safer alternative to rm. speed-test - Test your internet connection speed and ping. emoj - Find relevant emoji from text on the command-line. pageres - Capture website screenshots. cpy - Copy files. vtop - More better top, with nice charts. empty-trash - Empty the trash. is-up - Check whether a website is up or down. is-online - Check if the internet connection is up. public-ip - Get your public IP address. clipboard-cli - Copy & paste on the terminal. XO - Enforce strict code style using the JavaScript happiness style. Standard - JavaScript Standard Style — One style to rule them all. ESLint - The pluggable linting utility for JavaScript. dev-time - Get the current local time of a GitHub user. David - Tells you when your package npm dependencies are out of date. http-server - Simple, zero-config command-line HTTP server. Live Server - Development HTTP-server with livereload capability. bcat - Pipe command output to web browsers. normit - Google Translate with speech synthesis in your terminal. fkill - Fabulously kill processes. Cross-platform. pjs - Pipeable JavaScript. Quickly filter, map, and reduce from the terminal. license-checker - Check licenses of your apps dependencies. browser-run - Easily run code in a browser environment. tmpin - Adds stdin support to any CLI app that accepts file input. wifi-password - Get the current wifi password. wallpaper - Change the desktop wallpaper. brightness - Change the screen brightness. torrent - Download torrents. kill-tabs - Kill all Chrome tabs to improve performance, decrease battery usage, and save memory. alex - Catch insensitive, inconsiderate writing. pen - Live Markdown preview in the browser from your favorite editor. subdownloader - Subtitle downloader for movies and TV series. dark-mode - Toggle the macOS Dark Mode. iponmap - IP location finder. Jsome - Pretty prints JSON with configurable colors and indentation. itunes-remote - Interactively control iTunes. mobicon - Mobile app icon generator. mobisplash - Mobile app splash screen generator. diff2html-cli - Pretty git diff to HTML generator. Cash - Cross-platform Unix shell commands in pure JavaScript. trymodule - Try out npm packages in the terminal. jscpd - Copy/paste detector for source code. atmo - Server-side API mocking. auto-install - Auto installs dependencies as you code. lessmd - Markdown in the terminal. cost-of-modules - Find out which dependencies are slowing you down. localtunnel - Expose your localhost to the world. svg-term-cli - Share terminal sessions via SVG. gtop - System monitoring dashboard for the terminal. themer - Generate themes for your editor, terminal, wallpaper, Slack, and more. Functional programming lodash - Utility library delivering consistency, customization, performance, & extras. A better and faster Underscore.js. immutable - Immutable data collections. Ramda - Utility library with a focus on flexible functional composition enabled by automatic currying and reversed argument order. Avoids mutating data. Folktale - Suite of libraries for generic functional programming in JavaScript that allows you to write elegant, modular applications with fewer bugs, and more reuse. Mout - Utility library with the biggest difference between other existing solutions is that you can choose to load only the modules/functions that you need, no extra overhead. Bacon.js - Functional reactive programming. RxJS - Functional reactive library for transforming, composing, and querying various kinds of data. Lazy.js - Utility library similar to lodash/Underscore but with lazy evaluation, which can translate to superior performance in many cases. Kefir.js - Reactive library with focus on high performance and low memory usage. HTTP got - Nicer interface to the built-in http module. gh-got - Convenience wrapper for got to interact with the GitHub API. axios - Promise based HTTP client (works in the browser too). request - Simplified HTTP request client. wreck - HTTP Client Utilities. download - Download and extract files effortlessly. http-proxy - HTTP proxy. superagent - HTTP request library. node-fetch - window.fetch for Node.js. flashheart - REST client. http-fake-backend - Build a fake backend by providing the content of JSON files or JavaScript objects through configurable routes. cacheable-request - Wrap native HTTP requests with RFC compliant cache support. gotql - GraphQL request library built on got. Debugging / Profiling ironNode - Node.js debugger supporting ES2015 out of the box. node-inspector - Debugger based on Blink Developer Tools. debug - Tiny debugging utility. why-is-node-running - Node.js is running but you dont know why? njsTrace - Instrument and trace your code, see all function calls, arguments, return values, as well as the time spent in each function. vstream - Instrumentable streams mix-ins to inspect a pipeline of streams. stackman - Enhance an error stacktrace with code excerpts and other goodies. locus - Starts a REPL at runtime that has access to all variables. 0x - Flamegraph profiling. ctrace - Well-formatted and improved trace system calls and signals. leakage - Write memory leak tests. Logging pino - Extremely fast logger inspired by Bunyan. winston - Multi-transport async logging library. console-log-level - The most simple logger imaginable with support for log levels and custom prefixes. storyboard - End-to-end, hierarchical, real-time, colorful logs and stories. signale - Hackable console logger with beautiful output. Command-line utilities chalk - Terminal string styling done right. meow - CLI app helper. yargs - Command-line parser that automatically generates an elegant user-interface. ora - Elegant terminal spinner. get-stdin - Easier stdin. log-update - Log by overwriting the previous output in the terminal. Useful for rendering progress bars, animations, etc. Ink - React for interactive command-line apps. listr - Terminal task list. conf - Simple config handling for your app or module. ansi-escapes - ANSI escape codes for manipulating the terminal. log-symbols - Colored symbols for various log levels. figures - Unicode symbols with Windows CMD fallbacks. boxen - Create boxes in the terminal. terminal-link - Create clickable links in the terminal. terminal-image - Display images in the terminal. string-width - Get the visual width of a string - the number of columns required to display it. cli-truncate - Truncate a string to a specific width in the terminal. first-run - Check if its the first time the process is run. vorpal - Interactive CLI apps. blessed - Curses-like library. Inquirer.js - Interactive command-line prompt. yn - Parse yes/no like values. cli-table3 - Pretty unicode tables. drawille - Draw on the terminal with unicode braille characters. update-notifier - Update notifications for your CLI app. ascii-charts - ASCII bar chart in the terminal. progress - Flexible ascii progress bar. insight - Helps you understand how your tool is being used by anonymously reporting usage metrics to Google Analytics. cli-cursor - Toggle the CLI cursor. columnify - Create text-based columns suitable for console output. Supports cell wrapping. cli-columns - Columnated unicode and ansi-safe text lists. cfonts - Sexy ASCII fonts for the console. multispinner - Multiple, simultaneous, individually controllable CLI spinners. omelette - Shell autocompletion helper. cross-env - Set environment variables cross-platform. shelljs - Portable Unix shell commands. sudo-block - Block users from running your app with root permissions. loud-rejection - Make unhandled promise rejections fail loudly instead of the default silent fail. sparkly - Generate sparklines ▁▂▃▅▂▇ Bit - Create, maintain, find and use small modules and components across repositories. gradient-string - Beautiful color gradients in terminal output. oclif - CLI framework complete with parser, automatic documentation, testing, and plugins. term-size - Reliably get the terminal window size. Build tools parcel - Blazing fast, zero config web app bundler. webpack - Packs modules and assets for the browser. rollup - Next-generation ES2015 module bundler. gulp - Streaming and fast build system that favors code over config. Broccoli - Fast, reliable asset pipeline, supporting constant-time rebuilds and compact build definitions. Brunch - Front-end web app build tool with simple declarative config, fast incremental compilation, and an opinionated workflow. Start - Functional task runner with shareable presets. ygor - Promising task runner for when npm run isnt enough and everything else is too much. FuseBox - Fast build system that combines the power of webpack, JSPM and SystemJS, with first-class TypeScript support. pkg - Package your Node.js project into an executable. Hardware johnny-five - Firmata based Arduino Framework. serialport - Access serial ports for reading and writing. usb - USB library. i2c-bus - I2C serial bus access. onoff - GPIO access and interrupt detection. spi-device - SPI serial bus access. pigpio - Fast GPIO, PWM, servo control, state change notification, and interrupt handling on the Raspberry Pi. gps - NMEA parser for handling GPS receivers. Templating marko - HTML-based templating engine that compiles templates to CommonJS modules and supports streaming, async rendering and custom tags. nunjucks - Templating engine with inheritance, asynchronous control, and more (jinja2 inspired). handlebars.js - Superset of Mustache templates which adds powerful features like helpers and more advanced blocks. EJS - Simple unopinionated templating language. Pug - High-performance template engine heavily influenced by Haml. Web frameworks Hapi - Framework for building applications and services. Koa - Framework designed by the team behind Express, which aims to be a smaller, more expressive, and more robust foundation for web applications and APIs. Express - Web application framework, providing a robust set of features for building single and multi-page, and hybrid web applications. Feathers - Microservice framework built in the spirit of Express. LoopBack - Powerful framework for creating REST APIs and easily connecting to backend data sources. Meteor - An ultra-simple, database-everywhere, data-on-the-wire, pure-Javascript web framework. (You might like awesome-meteor) Restify - Enables you to build correct REST web services. ThinkJS - Framework with ES2015+ support, WebSockets, REST API. ActionHero - Framework for making reusable & scalable APIs for TCP sockets, WebSockets, and HTTP clients. MERN - Easily build production-ready universal apps with MongoDB, Express, React, and webpack. Next.js - Minimalistic framework for server-rendered universal JavaScript web apps. Nuxt.js - Minimalistic framework for server-rendered Vue.js apps. seneca - Toolkit for writing microservices. AdonisJs - A true MVC framework for Node.js built on solid foundations of Dependency Injection and IoC container. Hemera - Write reliable and fault-tolerant microservices with NATS. Micro - Minimalistic microservice framework with an async approach. Moleculer - Fast & powerful microservices framework. Fastify - Fast and low overhead web framework. Nest - Angular-inspired framework for building efficient and scalable server-side apps. Documentation documentation.js - API documentation generator with support for ES2015+ and flow annotation. ESDoc - Documentation generator targeting ES2015, attaching test code and measuring documentation coverage. Docco - Documentation generator which produces an HTML document that displays your comments intermingled with your code. JSDoc - API documentation generator similar to JavaDoc or PHPDoc. Filesystem del - Delete files/folders using globs. globby - Glob files with support for multiple patterns. cpy - Copy files. rimraf - Recursively delete files like rm -rf. make-dir - Recursively create directories like mkdir -p. graceful-fs - Drop-in replacement for the fs module with various improvements. chokidar - Filesystem watcher which stabilizes events from fs.watch and fs.watchFile as well as using native fsevents on macOS. find-up - Find a file by walking up parent directories. proper-lockfile - Inter-process and inter-machine lockfile utility. load-json-file - Read and parse a JSON file. write-json-file - Stringify and write JSON to a file atomically. fs-write-stream-atomic - Like fs.createWriteStream(), but atomic. filenamify - Convert a string to a valid filename. lnfs - Force create symlinks like ln -fs. istextorbinary - Check if a file is text or binary. fs-jetpack - Completely redesigned file system API for convenience in everyday use. fs-extra - Extra methods for the fs module. pkg-dir - Find the root directory of an npm package. filehound - Flexible and fluent interface for searching the file system. Control flow Promises Bluebird - Promise library with focus on innovative features and performance. pify - Promisify a callback-style function. delay - Delay a promise a specified amount of time. promise-memoize - Memoize promise-returning functions, with expire and prefetch. valvelet - Limit the execution rate of a promise-returning function. p-map - Map over promises concurrently. More… Observables zen-observable - Implementation of Observables. RxJS - Reactive programming. observable-to-promise - Convert an Observable to a Promise. More… Streams Highland.js - Manages synchronous and asynchronous code easily, using nothing more than standard JavaScript and Node-like Streams. Callbacks each-async - Async concurrent iterator like forEach. async - Provides straight-forward, powerful functions for working with asynchronicity. Channels js-csp - Communicating sequential processes for JavaScript (like Clojurescript core.async, or Go). Streams through2 - Tiny wrapper around streams2 Transform to avoid explicit subclassing noise. from2 - Convenience wrapper for ReadableStream, inspired by through2. get-stream - Get a stream as a string or buffer. into-stream - Convert a buffer/string/array/object into a stream. duplexify - Turn a writeable and readable stream into a single streams2 duplex stream. pumpify - Combine an array of streams into a single duplex stream. peek-stream - Transform stream that lets you peek the first line before deciding how to parse it. binary-split - Newline (or any delimiter) splitter stream. byline - Super-simple line-by-line Stream reader. first-chunk-stream - Transform the first chunk in a stream. pad-stream - Pad each line in a stream. multistream - Combine multiple streams into a single stream. stream-combiner2 - Turn a pipeline into a single stream. readable-stream - Mirror of Streams2 and Streams3 implementations in core. through2-concurrent - Transform object streams concurrently. Real-time µWebSockets - Highly scalable WebSocket server & client library. Socket.io - Enables real-time bidirectional event-based communication. Faye - Real-time client-server message bus, based on Bayeux protocol. SocketCluster - Scalable HTTP + WebSocket engine which can run on multiple CPU cores. Primus - An abstraction layer for real-time frameworks to prevent module lock-in. deepstream.io - Scalable real-time microservice framework. Kalm - Low-level socket router and middleware framework. MQTT.js - Client for MQTT - Pub-sub based messaging protocol for use on top of TCP/IP. Image sharp - The fastest module for resizing JPEG, PNG, WebP and TIFF images. image-type - Detect the image type of a Buffer/Uint8Array. gm - GraphicsMagick and ImageMagick wrapper. lwip - Lightweight image processor which does not require ImageMagick. pica - High quality & fast resize (lanczos3) in pure JS. Alternative to canvas drawImage(), when no pixelation allowed. jimp - Image processing in pure JavaScript. probe-image-size - Get the size of most image formats without a full download. Text iconv-lite - Convert character encodings. string-length - Get the real length of a string - by correctly counting astral symbols and ignoring ansi escape codes. camelcase - Convert a dash/dot/underscore/space separated string to camelCase: foo-bar → fooBar. escape-string-regexp - Escape RegExp special characters. execall - Find multiple RegExp matches in a string. splice-string - Remove or replace part of a string like Array#splice. indent-string - Indent each line in a string. strip-indent - Strip leading whitespace from every line in a string. detect-indent - Detect the indentation of code. he - HTML entity encoder/decoder. i18n-node - Simple translation module with dynamic JSON storage. babelfish - i18n with very easy syntax for plurals. matcher - Simple wildcard matching. unhomoglyph - Normalize visually similar unicode characters. i18next - Internationalization framework. Number random-int - Generate a random integer. random-float - Generate a random float. unique-random - Generate random numbers that are consecutively unique. round-to - Round a number to a specific number of decimal places: 1.234 → 1.2. Math ndarray - Multidimensional arrays. mathjs - An extensive math library. math-clamp - Clamp a number. algebra - Algebraic structures. multimath - Core to create fast image math in WebAssembly and JS. Date Luxon - Library for working with dates and times. date-fns - Modern date utility. Moment.js - Parse, validate, manipulate, and display dates. dateformat - Date formatting. tz-format - Format a date with timezone: 2015-11-30T10:40:35+01:00. cctz - Fast parsing, formatting, and timezone conversation for dates. URL normalize-url - Normalize a URL. humanize-url - Humanize a URL: http://sindresorhus.com → sindresorhus.com. url-unshort - Expand shortened URLs. speakingurl - Generate a slug from a string with transliteration. linkify-it - Link patterns detector with full unicode support. url-pattern - Easier than regex string matching patterns for URLs and other strings. embedza - Create HTML snippets/embeds from URLs using info from oEmbed, Open Graph, meta tags. Data validation joi - Object schema description language and validator for JavaScript objects. is-my-json-valid - JSON Schema validator that uses code generation to be extremely fast. property-validator - Easy property validation for Express. schema-inspector - JSON API sanitization and validation. ajv - The fastest JSON Schema validator. Supports v5 proposals. Parsing remark - Markdown processor powered by plugins. markdown-it - Markdown parser with 100% CommonMark support, extensions and syntax plugins. parse5 - Fast full-featured spec compliant HTML parser. strip-json-comments - Strip comments from JSON. strip-css-comments - Strip comments from CSS. parse-json - Parse JSON with more helpful errors. URI.js - URL mutation. PostCSS - CSS parser / stringifier. JSONStream - Streaming JSON.parse and stringify. neat-csv - Fast CSV parser. Callback interface for the above. csv-parser - Streaming CSV parser that aims to be faster than everyone else. PEG.js - Simple parser generator that produces fast parsers with excellent error reporting. x-ray - Web scraping utility. nearley - Simple, fast, powerful parsing for JavaScript. binary-extract - Extract a value from a buffer of JSON without parsing the whole thing. Stylecow - Parse, manipulate and convert modern CSS to make it compatible with all browsers. Extensible with plugins. js-yaml - Very fast YAML parser. xml2js - XML to JavaScript object converter. Jison - Friendly JavaScript parser generator. It shares genes with Bison, Yacc and family. google-libphonenumber - Parse, format, store and validate phone numbers. ref - Read/write structured binary data in Buffers. xlsx-populate - Read/write Excel XLSX. Chevrotain - Very fast and feature rich parser building toolkit for JavaScript. fast-xml-parser - Validate and parse XML. Humanize pretty-bytes - Convert bytes to a human readable string: 1337 → 1.34 kB. pretty-ms - Convert milliseconds to a human readable string: 1337000000 → 15d 11h 23m 20s. ms - Tiny millisecond conversion utility. pretty-error - Errors with less clutter. read-art - Extract readable content from any page. Compression yazl - Zip. yauzl - Unzip. Archiver - Streaming interface for archive generation, supporting ZIP and TAR. pako - High speed zlib port to pure js (deflate, inflate, gzip). tar-stream - Streaming tar parser and generator. Also see tar-fs. decompress - Decompression module with support for tar, tar.gz and zip files out of the box. Network get-port - Get an available port. ipify - Get your public IP address. getmac - Get the computer MAC address. DHCP - DHCP client and server. netcat - Netcat port in pure JS. Database Drivers PostgreSQL - PostgreSQL client. Pure JavaScript and native libpq bindings. Redis - Redis client. LevelUP - LevelDB. MySQL - MySQL client. couchdb-nano - CouchDB client. Aerospike - Aerospike client. Couchbase - Couchbase client. MongoDB - MongoDB driver. ODM / ORM Sequelize - Multi-dialect ORM. Supports PostgreSQL, SQLite, MySQL. Bookshelf - ORM for PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite3 in the style of Backbone.js. Massive - PostgreSQL data access tool. Mongoose - Elegant MongoDB object modeling. Waterline - Datastore-agnostic tool that dramatically simplifies interaction with one or more databases. OpenRecord - ORM for PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQLite3 and RESTful datastores. Similar to ActiveRecord. orm2 - ORM for PostgreSQL, MariaDB, MySQL, Amazon Redshift, SQLite, MongoDB. pg-promise - PostgreSQL framework for native SQL using promises. Objection.js - Lightweight ORM built on the SQL query builder Knex. TypeORM - ORM for PostgreSQL, MariaDB, MySQL, SQLite, and more. Query builder Knex - Query builder for PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite3, designed to be flexible, portable, and fun to use. Other NeDB - Embedded persistent database written in JavaScript. Lowdb - Small JavaScript database powered by Lodash. Keyv - Simple key-value storage with support for multiple backends. Finale - RESTful endpoint generator for your Sequelize models. database-js - Wrapper for multiple databases with a JDBC-like connection. Testing AVA - Futuristic test runner. Mocha - Feature-rich test framework making asynchronous testing simple and fun. nyc - Code coverage tool built on istanbul that works with subprocesses. tap - TAP test framework. tape - TAP-producing test harness. power-assert - Provides descriptive assertion messages through the standard assert interface. Mochify - TDD with Browserify, Mocha, PhantomJS and WebDriver. trevor - Run tests against multiple versions of Node.js without switching versions manually or pushing to Travis CI. loadtest - Run load tests for your web application, with an API for automation. Sinon.JS - Test spies, stubs and mocks. navit - PhantomJS / SlimerJS wrapper to simplify browser test scripting. Nock - HTTP mocking and expectations. intern - Code testing stack. toxy - Hackable HTTP proxy to simulate failure scenarios and network conditions. hook-std - Hook and modify stdout/stderr. testen - Run tests for multiple versions of Node.js locally with NVM. Nightwatch - Automated UI testing framework based on Selenium WebDriver. WebdriverIO - Automated testing based on the WebDriver protocol. Jest - Painless JavaScript testing. TestCafe - Automated browser testing. abstruse - Continuous Integration server. Security snyk - CLI and build-time tool to find & fix vulnerable npm dependencies. upash - Unified API for all password hashing algorithms. Benchmarking Benchmark.js - Benchmarking library that supports high-resolution timers and returns statistically significant results. matcha - Simplistic approach to benchmarking. Minifiers babili - ES2015+ aware minifier based on the Babel toolchain. UglifyJS2 - JavaScript minifier. clean-css - CSS minifier. minimize - HTML minifier. imagemin - Image minifier. Authentication Passport - Simple, unobtrusive authentication. Grant - OAuth middleware for Express, Koa, and Hapi. CloudRail - Unified API for social authentication (Facebook, Twitter, Slack, Instagram, …). Authorization CASL - Isomorphic authorization for UI and API. Email Nodemailer - The fastest way to handle email. emailjs - Send text/HTML emails with attachments to any SMTP server. email-templates - Create, preview, and send custom email templates. Job queues kue - Redis-backed priority job queue. bull - Persistent job and message queue. agenda - MongoDB-backed job scheduling. idoit - Redis-backed job queue engine with advanced job control. node-resque - Redis-backed job queue. rsmq - Redis-backed message queue. bee-queue - High-performance Redis-backed job queue. Node.js management n - Node.js version management. nave - Virtual Environments for Node.js. nodeenv - Node.js virtual environment compatible to Pythons virtualenv. nvm for Windows - Version management for Windows. Natural language processing retext - An extensible natural language system. franc - Detect the language of text. leven - Measure the difference between two strings using the Levenshtein distance algorithm. natural - Natural language facility. Process management PM2 - Advanced Process Manager. nodemon - Monitor for changes in your app and automatically restart the server. node-mac - Run scripts as a native Mac daemon and log to the console app. node-linux - Run scripts as native system service and log to syslog. node-windows - Run scripts as a native Windows service and log to the Event viewer. supervisor - Restart scripts when they crash or restart when a *.js file changes. Phusion Passenger - Friendly process manager that integrates directly into Nginx. Automation robotjs - Desktop Automation: control the mouse, keyboard and read the screen. AST Acorn - Tiny, fast JavaScript parser. babel-parser - JavaScript parser used in Babel. Static site generators Wintersmith - Flexible, minimalistic, multi-platform static site generator. Assemble - Static site generator for Node.js, Grunt.js, and Yeoman. DocPad - Static site generator with dynamic abilities and huge plugin ecosystem. Phenomic - Modern static website generator based on the React and Webpack ecosystem. docsify - Markdown documentation site generator with no statically built HTML files. Content management systems KeystoneJS - CMS and web application platform built on Express and MongoDB. ApostropheCMS - Content management system with an emphasis on intuitive front end content editing and administration built on Express and MongoDB. Strapi - Content Management Framework (headless-CMS) to build powerful APIs. Forum nodeBB - Forum platform for the modern web. Blogging Ghost - Simple, powerful publishing platform. Hexo - Fast, simple and powerful blogging framework. Weird cows - ASCII cows. superb - Get superb like words. cat-names - Get popular cat names. dog-names - Get popular dog names. superheroes - Get superhero names. supervillains - Get supervillain names. cool-ascii-faces - Get some cool ascii faces. cat-ascii-faces - ₍˄·͈༝·͈˄₎◞ ̑̑ෆ⃛ (=ↀωↀ=)✧ (^･o･^)ﾉ” nerds - Get data from nerdy topics like Harry Potter, Star Wars, and Pokémon. Serialization snappy - Native bindings for Googles Snappy compression library. protobuf - Implementation of Protocol Buffers. compactr - Implementation of the Compactr protocol. Miscellaneous execa - Better child_process. cheerio - Fast, flexible, and lean implementation of core jQuery designed specifically for the server. Electron - Build cross platform desktop apps with web technologies. (You might like awesome-electron) opn - Opens stuff like websites, files, executables. hasha - Hashing made simple. Get the hash of a buffer/string/stream/file. dot-prop - Get a property from a nested object using a dot path. onetime - Only run a function once. mem - Memoize functions - an optimization technique used to speed up consecutive function calls by caching the result of calls with identical input. import-fresh - Import a module while bypassing the cache. strip-bom - Strip UTF-8 byte order mark (BOM) from a string/buffer/stream. os-locale - Get the system locale. ssh2 - SSH2 client and server module. adit - SSH tunneling made simple. import-lazy - Import a module lazily. file-type - Detect the file type of a Buffer. Bottleneck - Rate limiter that makes throttling easy. ow - Function argument validation for humans. webworker-threads - Lightweight Web Worker API implementation with native threads. clipboardy - Access the system clipboard (copy/paste). node-pre-gyp - Makes it easy to publish and install Node.js C++ addons from binaries. opencv - Bindings for OpenCV. The defacto computer vision library. dotenv - Load environment variables from .env file. remote-git-tags - Get tags from a remote git repo. semver - Semantic version parser. Faker.js - Generate massive amounts of fake data. nodegit - Native bindings to Git. json-strictify - Safely serialize a value to JSON without data loss or going into an infinite loop. resolve-from - Resolve the path of a module like require.resolve() but from a given path. simplecrawler - Event driven web crawler. jsdom - JavaScript implementation of HTML and the DOM. hypernova - Server-side rendering your JavaScript views. @sindresorhus/is - Type check values. env-dot-prop - Get, set, or delete nested properties of process.env using a dot path. emittery - Simple and modern async event emitter. Resources Tutorials Nodeschool - Learn Node.js with interactive lessons. The Art of Node - An introduction to Node.js. stream-handbook - How to write Node.js programs with streams. module-best-practices - Some good practices when writing new npm modules. The Node Way - An entire philosophy of Node.js best practices and guiding principles exists for writing maintainable modules, scalable applications, and code that is actually pleasant to read. You Dont Know Node.js - Introduction to Node.js core features and asynchronous JavaScript. Discovery npms - Superb package search with deep analysis of package quality using a myriad of metrics. npm addict - Your daily injection of npm packages. npmcompare.com - Compare and discover npm packages. Articles Error Handling in Node.js Teach Yourself Node.js in 10 Steps Mastering the filesystem in Node.js Semver: A Primer Semver: Tilde and Caret Why Asynchronous? Understanding the Node.js Event Loop Understanding Object Streams Art of README - Learn the art of writing quality READMEs. Newsletters Node Weekly - Weekly e-mail round-up of Node.js news and articles. Node Module Of The Week! - Weekly dose of hand picked node modules. Videos Introduction to Node.js with Ryan Dahl Hands on with Node.js Nodetuts - Series of talks, including TCP & HTTP API servers, async programming, and more. Books Node.js in Action Node.js in Practice Mastering Node Node.js 8 the Right Way Professional Node.js: Building Javascript Based Scalable Software Practical Node.js: Building Real-World Scalable Web Apps Mixus Node book Web Development with Node and Express Pro Express.js Secure Your Node.js Web Application Express in Action Blogs Node.js blog webapplog.com - Blog posts on Node.js and JavaScript from the author of Practical Node.js and Pro Express.js Azat Mardan. Courses Learn to build apps and APIs with Node.js - Video course by Wes Bos. Real Time Web with Node.js Learn and Understand Node.js Cheatsheets Express.js Stream FAQs - Answering common questions about streams, covering pagination, events, and more. Tools OctoLinker - Chrome extension that linkifies dependencies in package.json, .js, .jsx, .coffee and .md files on GitHub. npm-hub - Chrome extension to display npm dependencies at the bottom of a repos readme. RunKit - Embed a Node.js environment on any website. RequireBin - Shareable JavaScript programs powered by npm and browserify. github-npm-stats - Chrome extension that displays npm download stats on GitHub. Community Gitter #node.js on Freenode Stack Overflow Reddit Twitter Hashnode Miscellaneous nodebots - Robots powered by JavaScript. node-module-boilerplate - Boilerplate to kickstart creating a node module. generator-nm - Scaffold out a node module. Microsoft Node.js Guidelines - Tips, tricks, and resources for working with Node.js on Microsoft platforms. Module Requests & Ideas - Request a JavaScript module you wish existed or get ideas for modules. Related lists awesome-npm - Resources and tips for using npm. awesome-cross-platform-nodejs - Resources for writing and testing cross-platform code. License To the extent possible under law, Sindre Sorhus has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.