SnapKit is a DSL to make Auto Layout easy on both iOS and OS X. ⚠️ To use with Swift 3.x please ensure you are using >= 3.0.0 ⚠️ ⚠️ To use with Swift 4.x please ensure you are using >= 4.0.0 ⚠️ Contents Requirements Migration Guides Communication Installation Usage Credits License Requirements iOS 8.0+ / Mac OS X 10.11+ / tvOS 9.0+ Xcode 9.0+ Swift 3.0+ Communication If you need help, use Stack Overflow. (Tag snapkit) If youd like to ask a general question, use Stack Overflow. If you found a bug, open an issue. If you have a feature request, open an issue. If you want to contribute, submit a pull request. Installation CocoaPods CocoaPods is a dependency manager for Cocoa projects. You can install it with the following command: bash $ gem install cocoapods CocoaPods 1.1.0+ is required to build SnapKit 4.0.0+. To integrate SnapKit into your Xcode project using CocoaPods, specify it in your Podfile: ```ruby source https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git platform :ios, 10.0 use_frameworks! target do pod SnapKit, ~> 4.0.0 end ``` Then, run the following command: bash $ pod install Carthage Carthage is a decentralized dependency manager that builds your dependencies and provides you with binary frameworks. You can install Carthage with Homebrew using the following command: bash $ brew update $ brew install carthage To integrate SnapKit into your Xcode project using Carthage, specify it in your Cartfile: ogdl github "SnapKit/SnapKit" ~> 4.0.0 Run carthage update to build the framework and drag the built SnapKit.framework into your Xcode project. Manually If you prefer not to use either of the aforementioned dependency managers, you can integrate SnapKit into your project manually. Usage Quick Start ```swift import SnapKit class MyViewController: UIViewController { lazy var box = UIView() override func viewDidLoad() { super.viewDidLoad() self.view.addSubview(box) box.snp.makeConstraints { (make) -> Void in make.width.height.equalTo(50) make.center.equalTo(self.view) } } } ``` Resources Documentation F.A.Q. Credits Robert Payne (@robertjpayne) Many other contributors License SnapKit is released under the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.