Wiki \| Documentation \| Twitter \| Community \| Sponsors \| Gitter Chat \| 中文官网 SpaceVim is a community-driven modular vim distribution. It manages collections of plugins in layers, which help collect related packages together to provide IDE-like features. SpaceVim is not just a vimrc but an ultimate Vim configuration, It contains many built-in features. The last release is v0.8.0, check out following-HEAD page for what happened since last release. See the quick start guide, documentation or the available layers for more information. Here is a throughput graph of the repository for the last few weeks: vim-markdown-toc GFM New Features Project layout Support SpaceVim Credits & Thanks vim-markdown-toc New Features This is a list of latest features implemented in SpaceVim: Use toml as default configuration here is an example for using toml as SpaceVim config: ```toml This is basic configuration example for SpaceVim All SpaceVim option below [option] section [options] # set spacevim theme. by default colorscheme layer is not loaded, # if you want to use more colorscheme, please load the colorscheme # layer colorscheme = "gruvbox" background = "dark" # Disable guicolors in basic mode, many terminal do not support 24bit # true colors enable_guicolors = false # Disable statusline separator, if you want to use other value, please # install nerd fonts statusline_separator = "nil" statusline_inactive_separator = "bar" buffer_index_type = 4 windows_index_type = 3 enable_tabline_filetype_icon = false enable_statusline_mode = false statusline_unicode_symbols = false # Enable vim compatible mode, avoid changing origin vim key bindings vimcompatible = true Enable autocomplete layer [[layers]] name = autocomplete auto-completion-return-key-behavior = "complete" auto-completion-tab-key-behavior = "cycle" [[layers]] name = shell default_position = top default_height = 30 ``` Iedit mode SpaceVim uses powerful iedit mode to quick edit multiple occurrences of a symbol or selection. Two new modes:iedit-Normal/iedit-Insert The default color for iedit is red/green which is based on the current colorscheme. Highlight cursor symbol SpaceVim supports highlighting of the current symbol on demand and adds a transient state to easily navigate and rename this symbol. Fly Grep in Vim With this feature, vim will display the searching result as you type. Of course, it is running asynchronously. Before using this feature, you need to install a searching tool. FlyGrep works through search tools: ag, rg, ack, pt and grep, Choose one you like. Mnemonic key bindings navigation You dont need to remember any key bindings, as the mapping guide will show up after the SPC is pressed. The mapping guide is also available for g, z, and s. Help description for key bindings use SPC h d k to get the help description of a key binding, and gd to find definition of key bindings. Asynchronous plugin manager create an UI for dein.vim - the best asynchronous vim plugin manager For more features, please read SpaceVims Blog Project layout txt ├─ .ci/ build automation ├─ .github/ issue/PR templates ├─ .SpaceVim.d/ project specific configuration ├─ autoload/SpaceVim.vim SpaceVim core file ├─ autoload/SpaceVim/api/ Public APIs ├─ autoload/SpaceVim/layers/ available layers ├─ autoload/SpaceVim/plugins/ buildin plugins ├─ autoload/SpaceVim/mapping/ mapping guide ├─ doc/ help(cn/en) ├─ docs/ website(cn/en) ├─ wiki/ wiki(cn/en) ├─ bin/ executable └─ test/ tests Support SpaceVim The best way to support SpaceVim is to contribute to it either by reporting bugs, helping the community on the Gitter Chat or sending pull requests. For more info please check our development guidelines. If you want to show your support financially you can buy a drink for the maintainer by clicking following icon. | wechat | alipay | | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | | | | Bitcoin: 1DtuVeg81c2L9NEhDaVTAAbrCR3pN5xPFv Credits & Thanks This project exists thanks to all the people who have contributed: @Gabirel and his Hack-SpaceVim @everettjf and his SpaceVimTutorial vimdoc generate doc file for SpaceVim Rafael Bodill and his vim-config Bailey Ling and his dotvim authors of all the plugins used in SpaceVim. vim:set nowrap: