Join our Slack at slack.spreecommerce.org Success Stories Extensions Documentation Roadmap Spree is a complete open source e-commerce solution built with Ruby on Rails. It was originally developed by Sean Schofield and is now maintained by Spark Solutions. Were open to contributions and accepting new Core Team members. Spree consists of several different gems, each of which are maintained in a single repository and documented in a single set of online documentation. spree_api (RESTful API) spree_frontend (Customer frontend) spree_backend (Admin panel) spree_cmd (Command-line tools) spree_core (Models & Mailers, the basic components of Spree that it cant run without) spree_sample (Sample data) Demo Try Spree with direct deployment on Heroku: If you want to run demo spree application on your machine, you can use our docker image with command below. It will download and run sample Spree application on http://localhost:3000 shell docker run --rm -it -p 3000:3000 spreecommerce/spree:latest Getting Started Add Spree gems to your Gemfile: Rails 5.2 ruby gem spree, ~> 3.6.1 gem spree_auth_devise, ~> 3.3 gem spree_gateway, ~> 3.3 Rails 5.1 ruby gem spree, ~> 3.5.0 gem spree_auth_devise, ~> 3.3 gem spree_gateway, ~> 3.3 Rails 5.0 ruby gem spree, ~> 3.2.7 gem spree_auth_devise, ~> 3.3 gem spree_gateway, ~> 3.3 Rails 4.2 ruby gem spree, ~> 3.1.12 gem spree_auth_devise, ~> 3.3 gem spree_gateway, ~> 3.3 Note: If youre using fresh Rails 5.1 application, you need to run bundle update i18n before following steps below. Run bundle install Use the install generators to set up Spree: shell rails g spree:install --user_class=Spree::User rails g spree:auth:install rails g spree_gateway:install Installation options Alternatively, if you want to use the bleeding edge version of Spree, add this to your Gemfile: ruby gem spree, github: spree/spree gem spree_auth_devise, github: spree/spree_auth_devise gem spree_gateway, github: spree/spree_gateway Note: The master branch is not guaranteed to ever be in a fully functioning state. It is unwise to use this branch in a production system you care deeply about. By default, the installation generator (rails g spree:install) will run migrations as well as adding seed and sample data and will copy frontend views for easy customization (if spree_frontend available). This can be disabled using shell rails g spree:install --migrate=false --sample=false --seed=false --copy_views=false You can always perform any of these steps later by using these commands. shell bundle exec rake railties:install:migrations bundle exec rake db:migrate bundle exec rake db:seed bundle exec rake spree_sample:load Bundle Issues If you encountered any problems with bundler, please try downgrading to bundler 1.13.7 or earlier. Browse Store http://localhost:3000 Browse Admin Interface http://localhost:3000/admin If you have spree_auth_devise installed, you can generate a new admin user by running rake spree_auth:admin:create. Extensions Spree Extensions provide additional features not present in the Core system. | Extension | Spree 3.1+ support | Description | | --- | --- | --- | | spree_gateway | | Community supported Spree Payment Method Gateways | spree_auth_devise | | Provides authentication services for Spree, using the Devise gem. | spree_i18n | | I18n translation files for Spree Commerce | spree-multi-domain | | Multiple Spree stores on different domains - single unified backed for processing orders | spree_multi_currency | | Provides UI to allow configuring multiple currencies in Spree | | spree_braintree_vzero | | Official Spree Braintree v.zero + PayPal extension | | spree_address_book | | Adds address book for users to Spree | | spree_digital | | A Spree extension to enable downloadable products | | spree_social | | Building block for spree social networking features (provides authentication and account linkage) | | spree_related_products | | Related products extension for Spree | spree_active_shipping | | Spree integration for Shopifys active_shipping gem | spree_static_content | | Manage static pages for Spree | | spree-product-assembly | | Adds oportunity to make bundle of products | | spree_editor | | Rich text editor for Spree with Image and File uploading in-place | | spree_recently_viewed | | Recently viewed products in Spree | | spree_wishlist | | Wishlist extension for Spree | | spree_sitemap | | Sitemap Generator for Spree | | spree_volume_pricing | | It determines the price for a particular product variant with predefined ranges of quantities | better_spree_paypal_express | | This is the official Paypal Express extension for Spree. | spree_globalize | | Adds support for model translations (multi-language stores) | spree_avatax_certified | | Improve your Spree stores sales tax decision automation with Avalara AvaTax | spree_analytics_trackers | | Adds support for Analytics Trackers (Google Analytics & Segment) Performance You may notice that your Spree store runs slowly in development environment. This can be because in development each asset (css and javascript) is loaded separately. You can disable it by adding the following line to config/environments/development.rb. ruby config.assets.debug = false Developing Spree Spree is meant to be run within the context of Rails application and the source code is essentially a collection of gems. You can easily create a sandbox application inside of your cloned source directory for testing purposes. Clone the Git repo shell git clone git://github.com/spree/spree.git cd spree Install the gem dependencies shell bundle install Sandbox Create a sandbox Rails application for testing purposes which automatically perform all necessary database setup shell bundle exec rake sandbox Start the server shell cd sandbox rails server Running Tests We use CircleCI to run the tests for Spree. You can see the build statuses at https://circleci.com/gh/spree/spree. Each gem contains its own series of tests, and for each directory, you need to do a quick one-time creation of a test application and then you can use it to run the tests. For example, to run the tests for the core project. shell cd core BUNDLE_GEMFILE=../Gemfile bundle exec rake test_app bundle exec rspec spec If you would like to run specs against a particular database you may specify the dummy apps database, which defaults to sqlite3. shell DB=postgres bundle exec rake test_app If you want to run specs for only a single spec file shell bundle exec rspec spec/models/spree/state_spec.rb If you want to run a particular line of spec shell bundle exec rspec spec/models/spree/state_spec.rb:7 You can also enable fail fast in order to stop tests at the first failure shell FAIL_FAST=true bundle exec rspec spec/models/state_spec.rb If you want to run the simplecov code coverage report shell COVERAGE=true bundle exec rspec spec If youre working on multiple facets of Spree to test, please ensure that you have a postgres user: shell createuser -s -r postgres And also ensure that you have PhantomJS installed as well: shell brew update && brew install phantomjs To execute all the tests, you may want to run this command at the root of the Spree project to generate test applications and run specs for all the facets: shell bash build.sh Contributing Spree is an open source project and we encourage contributions. Please review the contributing guidelines before contributing. In the spirit of free software, everyone is encouraged to help improve this project. Here are some ways you can contribute: by using prerelease versions / master branch by reporting bugs by translating to a new language by writing or editing documentation by writing specs by writing needed code or finishing code by refactoring code by reviewing pull requests by verifying issues License Spree is released under the New BSD License. About Spark Solutions Spree is maintained by Spark Solutions Sp. z o.o.. We are passionate about open source software. We are available for hire.