Dagger 1 A fast dependency injector for Android and Java. Deprecated – Please upgrade to Dagger 2 Squares Dagger 1.x is deprecated in favor of Googles Dagger 2. Please see the migration guide for help with the upgrade. Download Dagger 1 You will need to include the dagger-${dagger.version}.jar in your applications runtime. In order to activate code generation you will need to include dagger-compiler-${dagger.version}.jar in your build at compile time. In a Maven project, one would include the runtime in the dependencies section of your pom.xml (replacing ${dagger.version} with the appropriate current release), and the dagger-compiler artifact as an "optional" or "provided" dependency: xml <dependencies> <dependency> <groupId>com.squareup.dagger</groupId> <artifactId>dagger</artifactId> <version>${dagger.version}</version> </dependency> <dependency> <groupId>com.squareup.dagger</groupId> <artifactId>dagger-compiler</artifactId> <version>${dagger.version}</version> <optional>true</optional> </dependency> </dependencies> You can also find downloadable .jars on Maven Central. Youll need Dagger, JavaPoet, and javax.inject. Snapshots of the development version are available in Sonatypes snapshots repository. License Copyright 2012 Square, Inc. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.