OkHttp An HTTP & HTTP/2 client for Android and Java applications. For more information see the website and the wiki. Download Download the latest JAR or grab via Maven: xml <dependency> <groupId>com.squareup.okhttp3</groupId> <artifactId>okhttp</artifactId> <version>3.10.0</version> </dependency> or Gradle: groovy implementation com.squareup.okhttp3:okhttp:3.10.0 Snapshots of the development version are available in Sonatypes snapshots repository. MockWebServer A library for testing HTTP, HTTPS, and HTTP/2 clients. MockWebServer coupling with OkHttp is essential for proper testing of HTTP/2 so that code can be shared. Download Download the latest JAR or grab via Maven: xml <dependency> <groupId>com.squareup.okhttp3</groupId> <artifactId>mockwebserver</artifactId> <version>3.10.0</version> <scope>test</scope> </dependency> or Gradle: groovy testImplementation com.squareup.okhttp3:mockwebserver:3.10.0 R8 / ProGuard If you are using R8 or ProGuard add the options from this file. You might also need rules for Okio which is a dependency of this library. License Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.