ES6-Promise (subset of rsvp.js) This is a polyfill of the ES6 Promise. The implementation is a subset of rsvp.js extracted by @jakearchibald, if youre wanting extra features and more debugging options, check out the full library. For API details and how to use promises, see the JavaScript Promises HTML5Rocks article. Downloads es6-promise 27.86 KB (7.33 KB gzipped) es6-promise-auto 27.78 KB (7.3 KB gzipped) - Automatically provides/replaces Promise if missing or broken. es6-promise-min 6.17 KB (2.4 KB gzipped) es6-promise-auto-min 6.19 KB (2.4 KB gzipped) - Minified version of es6-promise-auto above. CDN To use via a CDN include this in your html: ``html <!-- Automatically provides/replacesPromise` if missing or broken. --> Minified version of `es6-promise-auto` below. ``` Node.js To install: sh yarn add es6-promise or sh npm install es6-promise To use: js var Promise = require(es6-promise).Promise; Usage in IE<9 catch and finally are reserved keywords in IE<9, meaning promise.catch(func) or promise.finally(func) throw a syntax error. To work around this, you can use a string to access the property as shown in the following example. However most minifiers will automatically fix this for you, making the resulting code safe for old browsers and production: js promise[catch](function(err) { // ... }); js promise[finally](function() { // ... }); Auto-polyfill To polyfill the global environment (either in Node or in the browser via CommonJS) use the following code snippet: js require(es6-promise).polyfill(); Alternatively js require(es6-promise/auto); Notice that we dont assign the result of polyfill() to any variable. The polyfill() method will patch the global environment (in this case to the Promise name) when called. Building & Testing You will need to have PhantomJS installed globally in order to run the tests. npm install -g phantomjs npm run build to build npm test to run tests npm start to run a build watcher, and webserver to test npm run test:server for a testem test runner and watching builder