Stimulus A modest JavaScript framework for the HTML you already have Stimulus is a JavaScript framework with modest ambitions. It doesnt seek to take over your entire front-end—in fact, its not concerned with rendering HTML at all. Instead, its designed to augment your HTML with just enough behavior to make it shine. Stimulus pairs beautifully with Turbolinks to provide a complete solution for fast, compelling applications with a minimal amount of effort. How does it work? Sprinkle your HTML with magic controller, target, and action attributes: ```html ``` Then write a compatible controller. Stimulus brings it to life automatically: ```js // hello_controller.js import { Controller } from "stimulus" export default class extends Controller { static targets = [ "name", "output" ] greet() { this.outputTarget.textContent = Hello, ${this.nameTarget.value}! } } ``` Stimulus continuously watches the page, kicking in as soon as magic attributes appear or disappear. It works with any update to the DOM, regardless of whether it comes from a full page load, a Turbolinks page change, or an Ajax request. Stimulus manages the whole lifecycle. You can write your first controller in five minutes by following along in The Stimulus Handbook. You can read more about why we created this new framework in The Origin of Stimulus. Installing Stimulus Stimulus integrates with the webpack asset packager to automatically load controller files from a folder in your app. You can use Stimulus with other asset packaging systems, too. And if you prefer no build step at all, just drop a <script> tag on the page and get right down to business. See the Installation Guide for detailed instructions. Getting Help & Contributing Back Stimulus is MIT-licensed open source software from Basecamp, the creators of Ruby on Rails. Have a question about Stimulus? Connect with other Stimulus developers on the Stimulus Discourse community forum. Find a bug? Head over to our issue tracker and well do our best to help. We love pull requests, too! We expect all Stimulus contributors to abide by the terms of our Code of Conduct. © 2018 Basecamp, LLC.