Storybook Storybook is a development environment for UI components. It allows you to browse a component library, view the different states of each component, and interactively develop and test components. Intro Storybook runs outside of your app. This allows you to develop UI components in isolation, which can improve component reuse, testability, and development speed. You can build quickly without having to worry about application-specific dependencies. Here are some featured examples that you can reference to see how Storybook works: https://storybook.js.org/examples/ Storybook comes with a lot of addons for component design, documentation, testing, interactivity, and so on. Storybooks easy-to-use API makes it easy to configure and extend in various ways. It has even been extended to support React Native development for mobile. Table of contents Getting Started Projects Supported Frameworks Sub Projects Addons Live Examples 💪 Contributing Development scripts Backers Sponsors Getting Started First install storybook: sh npm i -g @storybook/cli cd my-react-app getstorybook The -g global install is used to run our cli tool in your project directory to generate templates for your existing projects. To avoid the global install and start your project manually, take a look at our Slow Start Guide. Once its installed, you can npm run storybook and it will run the development server on your local machine, and give you a URL to browse some sample stories. Storybook v2.x migration note: If youre using Storybook v2.x and want to shift to 3.x version the easiest way is: sh npm i -g @storybook/cli cd my-storybook-v2-app getstorybook It runs a codemod to update all package names. Read all migration details in our Migration Guide For full documentation on using Storybook visit: storybook.js.org For additional help, join us in our Slack Projects Supported Frameworks React React Native Vue Angular Polymer Mithril alpha Marko alpha HTML alpha Sub Projects CLI - Streamlined installation for a variety of app types examples - Code examples to illustrate different Storybook use cases Addons a11y - Test components for user accessibility in Storybook actions - Log actions as users interact with components in the Storybook UI backgrounds - Let users choose backgrounds in the Storybook UI centered - Center the alignment of your components within the Storybook UI events - Interactively fire events to components that respond to EventEmitter graphql - Query a GraphQL server within Storybook stories info - Annotate stories with extra component usage information jest - View the results of components unit tests in Storybook knobs - Interactively edit component prop data in the Storybook UI links - Create links between stories notes - Annotate Storybook stories with notes options - Customize the Storybook UI in code storyshots - Easy snapshot testing for components in Storybook storysource - View the code of your stories within the Storybook UI viewport - Change display sizes and layouts for responsive components using Storybook See Addon / Framework Support Table Live Examples 4.0.alpha Note, this is an Alpha version which may not be well tested. Features in this version are not final. React Official Vue Angular Polymer Mithril Marko HTML 3.4 React Official Vue Angular Polymer 3.3 React Official Vue Angular Contributing We welcome contributions to Storybook! ⇄ Pull requests and ★ Stars are always welcome. Read our contributing guide to get started. Development scripts yarn bootstrap Installs package dependencies and links packages together - using lerna yarn run publish Push a release to git and npm will ask for version in interactive mode - using lerna. yarn lint boolean check if code conforms to linting rules - uses remark & eslint yarn lint:js - will check js yarn lint:md - will check markdown + code samples yarn lint:js --fix - will automatically fix js yarn test boolean check if unit tests all pass - uses jest yarn run test --core --watch - will run core tests in watch-mode Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] License MIT