API creation made simple, secure and fast. The most advanced open-source Content Management Framework to build powerful API with no effort. Quick start Weve been working on a major update to Strapi for several months now, rewriting the core framework and the administration panel. Performances has been increased, Developer eXperience has been improved and a brand new plugins ecosystem has been introduced. Both versions are available, we still recommend you to use v1 for production usage.. Alpha The alpha has support for the latest version of Node.js (v9) and npm (v5). bash npm install strapi@alpha -g Stable This is the production-ready version of Strapi (v1). You should also consider that the migration to v3 will not be easy due to many breaking changes. bash npm install strapi -g Read the Getting started page to create your first project using Strapi. Features Modern Admin Panel: Elegant, entirely customizable and fully extensible admin panel. Secure by default: Reusable policies, CSRF, CORS, P3P, Xframe, XSS, and more. Plugins Oriented: Install auth system, content management, custom plugins, and more, in seconds. Blazing Fast: Built on top of Node.js, Strapi delivers amazing performances. Front-end Agnostic: Use any front-end frameworks (React, Vue, Angular, etc.), mobile apps or even IoT. Powerful CLI: Scaffold projects and APIs on the fly. SQL & NoSQL databases: Work with Mongo as a main database, also supports Postgres, MySQL, etc. Philosophy ? At Strapi, everything we do we believe in changing the status quo of web development. Our products are simple to use, user friendly and production-ready. Web and mobile applications needed a powerful, simple to use and production-ready API-driven solution. Thats why we created Strapi, an open-source Content Management Framework (CMF) for exposing your content (data, media) accross multi-devices. Halfway between a CMS and a framework, Strapi takes advantages of both worlds. A powerful dashboard to easily manage your content with a flexible framework layer to develop and integrate specific features. Support For more information on the upcoming version, please take a look to our ROADMAP. Community support For general help using Strapi, please refer to the official Strapi documentation. For additional help, you can use one of this channel to ask question: StackOverflow Slack (highly recommended for realtime support) GitHub Twitter Facebook. Professional support Strapi Solutions, the company behind Strapi, provides a full range of solutions to get better results, faster. Were always looking for the next challenge: coaching, consulting, training, customization, etc. Drop us an email to see how we can help you. Migration Follow our migration guides on the wiki to keep your Strapi projects updated. License MIT License Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Strapi Solutions.