STREAMA Ever had a huge bookshelf full of shows and movies? Ever wanted to digitalize them, but didnt have a good way of organizing the files? Worry no more! Streama is your own personal Netflix for just such a purpose! Donate If you want to donate to the developer via bitcoin use 17rCUEX6KYQ8ZM4w39ttEUL7SUDnGCpcWq Table of contents: Getting Started Downloads The Application Settings The Dashboard The Player The Admin-Panel Accessing existing files The Users Technical Details Changelog Roadmap Known Issues Contributing License Getting Started Installation and first-time setup If you have any issues getting started, free free to chat with us on Discord. We are more than happy to assist and then improve the docs accordingly. Downloads Stable and beta versions see the GitHub releases Unstable/alpha builds see StreamaBuilds The Application Settings When you first run the application, you will be redirected to the settings page. Here you enter your desired upload directory for the video files, your theMovieDb.org API key and a different base url if so desired (useful for remote hosting). Once you made adjustments to any of the settings, make sure to validate the value before saving. - For the API-Key, the validation checks against theMovieDb.org to see if youve entered a valid API-key. - For the upload directory, the application checks if it has read/write permissions for it. The Dashboard On the dashboard a user can see their recently watched TV-shows and Movies and their progress (they can continue where they left off) as well start new shows and movies that they havent yet seen. The "Continue Watching" Feature works by periodically updating the database (only while watching, of course!) with info about the currently watched Video and how far it has been seen. If a Movie or Episode does not contain any video-files, it wont show up in the dashboard. The Player The Streama-Player is (heavily) inspired by Netflix, so you get all the good stuff from there. For Shows, there is a "next episode" button and a handy episode/season browser. There are also the basics: volume-control, play/pause, and fullscreen. Later down the road I will add a feature to add subtitles and switch between video-files (for instance for different quality uploads). The player is HTML5-based and has only really been tested in Chrome so far. The Episode Browser I am especially proud of the Episode-Browser, which aims to function just like on Netflix. By default, the current video-files season is selected. The user gets an overview of which other episodes there are in the season, how many seasons there are, and, as an added feature, the user sees all the added episodes, even if no video-files are added to them (thus greyed out). The Admin-Panel One of the most important things to me was to make managing shows, movies, and episodes as easy and fun as possible. For this I made heavy use of the API from theMovieDatabase.org, which auto-fills the episodes, shows and movies with useful information and great images. This eases the users role in adding content. For example, creating a new TV-show and the episodes for the first season looks something like this: Uploading video-files for each episode is as easy as drag-and-drop! Accessing existing files If you want to avoid uploading every file, use our new and improved "Local File" Feature instead. You can define a local directory (I use one directly in which I created symlinks to all my mounted drives) and then you can either use the local file browser for individual movies / tv-Shows or you can use the bulk-create feature. The local file browser You can access the local file browser from any movie or TV-show (anywhere where you would otherwise upload a file). Note: You need to first define the local directory in the settings. Bulk-Create from File This MR addresses the issue "Batch Add Files #241". Note: the TV-Show does not have to be present in order for this to work. Everything will be created by the backend. Running matcher & previewing result adding single matched file adding files in bulk Customizing the Matcher Just like in Emby or Kodi, the matcher-regex can be altered. The two defaults are Movie: /^(?<Name>.*)[_.]\(\d{4}\).*/ TvShow/Episode: /^(?<Name>.+)[._]S(?<Season>\d{2})E(?<Episode>\d{2,3}).*/ In order to customize the regex, just add the regex in the bottom of the application.yml like so: ```yml streama: regex: movies: ^(?.)[_.](\d{4}). shows: ^(?.+)[._]S(?\d{2})E(?\d{2,3}).* ``` The Users Users can be invited and managed in the admin-panel. By default, they are non-admins, meaning they can only view videos, not create them. You can make them admins with the press of a button. Since there is user-administration in place, I plan on expanding on this a lot! Another feature I want to add is the ability for users to add and administer some form of playlists. There is a lot of potential to make this even better! Technical Details This application is web-based, the server-side is written on Grails 3 with SpringSecurity for login & user-handling. For all the front-end components, AngularJS is used and the player is completely HTML5-based. The application is essentially split into Grails for a REST-API, and AngularJS for the frontend. Streama uses the awesome API from theMovieDatabase for all media-metadata. Changelog Please refer to description of each release or the git log. Roadmap Streama is still very much a work-in-progress. We will be adding new features and bug-fixes often, but this is a hobby project for the core-contributers, so the time that we can spend on it is limited. For all our feature and bug tracking we use the Issues Section. Streamas roadmap is currently to work though the feature requests and improvements that are in the issue tracker. Take a look at the milestones for what we intend to add for upcoming releases. Contributing Features, Improvements, and Bugfixes Streama currently only has ~2-3 core-contributers so we are grateful for any extra contributions. Send though a Pull Request and we will review it ASAP. If youre not sure what to work on, take a look at the issues. Theres lots to do! Translations If you want to contribute a translation, please follow the guide here. Known Issues There is no video-conversion currently, meaning you are reliant upon HTML5 browser compatibilities. Server-side conversion is on our roadmap. See Issue #440 License Streama is distributed under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE.md for details.