LoopBack LoopBack is a highly-extensible, open-source Node.js framework that enables you to: Create dynamic end-to-end REST APIs with little or no coding. Access data from Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server, MongoDB, SOAP and other REST APIs. Incorporate model relationships and access controls for complex APIs. Use built-in push, geolocation, and file services for mobile apps. Easily create client apps using Android, iOS, and JavaScript SDKs. Run your application on-premises or in the cloud. LoopBack consists of: A library of Node.js modules. Yeoman generators for scaffolding applications. Client SDKs for iOS, Android, and web clients. LoopBack tools include: * Command-line tool loopback-cli to create applications, models, data sources, and so on. For more details, see https://loopback.io/. Supported versions Current|Long Term Support :-:|:-: 3.x|2.x Learn more about our LTS plan in docs. LoopBack modules The LoopBack framework is a set of Node.js modules that you can use independently or together. Core loopback loopback-datasource-juggler strong-remoting Connectors loopback-connector-mongodb loopback-connector-mysql loopback-connector-postgresql loopback-connector-rest Enterprise Connectors loopback-connector-oracle loopback-connector-mssql loopback-connector-soap loopback-connector-atg Community Connectors The LoopBack community has created and supports a number of additional connectors. See Community connectors for details. Components loopback-component-push loopback-component-storage loopback-component-passport Client SDKs loopback-sdk-ios loopback-sdk-android loopback-sdk-angular loopback-sdk-angular-cli grunt-loopback-sdk-angular Tools loopback-explorer loopback-workspace generator-loopback Examples StrongLoop provides a number of example applications that illustrate various key LoopBack features. In some cases, they have accompanying step-by-step instructions (tutorials). See examples at loopback.io for details. Resources Documentation. API documentation. LoopBack Announcements LoopBack Google Group. GitHub issues. Gitter chat. Contributing Contributions to the LoopBack project are welcome! See Contributing to LoopBack for more information. Reporting issues One of the easiest ways to contribute to LoopBack is to report an issue. See Reporting issues for more information.