Faker This gem is a port of Perls Data::Faker library that generates fake data. It comes in very handy for taking screenshots (taking screenshots for my project, Catch the Best was the original impetus for the creation of this gem), having real-looking test data, and having your database populated with more than one or two records while youre doing development. NOTE While Faker generates data at random, returned values are not guaranteed to be unique by default. You must explicity specify when you require unique values, see details. Values also can be deterministic if you use the deterministic feature, see details This is the master branch of Faker and may contain changes that are not yet released. Please refer the README of your version for the available methods. List of all versions is available here. Contents Installing Usage Faker::Address Faker::Ancient Faker::App Faker::Appliance Faker::Artist Faker::AquaTeenHungerForce Faker::Avatar Faker::BackToTheFuture Faker::Bank Faker::Beer Faker::Bitcoin Faker::Book Faker::Boolean Faker::BossaNova Faker::BreakingBad Faker::Business Faker::Cannabis Faker::Cat Faker::ChuckNorris Faker::Code Faker::Coffee Faker::Color Faker::Commerce Faker::Community Faker::Company Faker::Compass Faker::Crypto Faker::Currency Faker::Date Faker::Demographic Faker::Dessert Faker::Device Faker::Dog Faker::Dota Faker::DrWho Faker::DragonBall Faker::DumbAndDumber Faker::Dune Faker::Educator Faker::ElderScrolls Faker::ElectricalComponents Faker::Esport Faker::Ethereum Faker::Fallout Faker::FamilyGuy Faker::FamousLastWords Faker::File Faker::Fillmurray Faker::Finance Faker::Food Faker::Football Faker::Friends Faker::FunnyName Faker::GameOfThrones Faker::Gender Faker::GreekPhilosophers Faker::Hacker Faker::HarryPotter Faker::HeyArnold Faker::Hipster Faker::HitchhikersGuideToTheGalaxy Faker::Hobbit Faker::HowIMetYourMother Faker::IDNumber Faker::Internet Faker::Invoice Faker::Job Faker::Kpop Faker::LeagueOfLegends Faker::Lebowski Faker::LordOfTheRings Faker::Lorem Faker::LoremFlickr Faker::LoremPixel Faker::Lovecraft Faker::Markdown Faker::Matz Faker::Measurement Faker::MichaelScott Faker::Military Faker::MostInterestingManInTheWorld Faker::Movie Faker::Music Faker::Myst Faker::Name Faker::Nation Faker::NatoPhoneticAlphabet Faker::NewGirl Faker::Number Faker::Omniauth Faker::OnePiece Faker::Overwatch Faker::ParksAndRec Faker::PhoneNumber Faker::Placeholdit Faker::Pokemon Faker::PrincessBride Faker::ProgrammingLanguage Faker::RickAndMorty Faker::Robin Faker::RockBand Faker::RuPaul Faker::Science Faker::Seinfeld Faker::SiliconValley Faker::Simpsons Faker::SingularSiegler Faker::SlackEmoji Faker::Source Faker::Space Faker::StarTrek Faker::StarWars Faker::StrangerThings Faker::String Faker::Stripe Faker::Superhero Faker::SwordArtOnline Faker::Team Faker::TheFreshPrinceOfBelAir Faker::TheITCrowd Faker::TheThickOfIt Faker::Time Faker::TwinPeaks Faker::Twitter Faker::Types Faker::UmphreysMcgee Faker::University Faker::Vehicle Faker::VentureBros Faker::VForVendetta Faker::Witcher Faker::WorldCup Faker::WorldOfWarcraft Faker::Zelda Customization Contributing Contact License Installing bash gem install faker Note: if you are getting a uninitialized constant Faker::[some_class] error, your version of the gem is behind the one documented here. To make sure that your gem is the one documented here, change the line in your gemfile to: ruby gem faker, :git => https://github.com/stympy/faker.git, :branch => master Usage ```ruby require faker Faker::Name.name #=> "Christophe Bartell" Faker::Internet.email #=> "kirsten.greenholt@corkeryfisher.info" ``` Ensuring unique values Prefix your method call with unique. For example: ruby Faker::Name.unique.name # This will return a unique name every time it is called If too many unique values are requested from a generator that has a limited number of potential values, a Faker::UniqueGenerator::RetryLimitExceeded exception may be raised. It is possible to clear the record of unique values that have been returned, for example between tests. ruby Faker::Name.unique.clear # Clears used values for Faker::Name Faker::UniqueGenerator.clear # Clears used values for all generators Deterministic Random Faker supports seeding of its pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) to provide deterministic output of repeated method calls. ```ruby Faker::Config.random = Random.new(42) Faker::Company.bs #=> "seize collaborative mindshare" Faker::Company.bs #=> "engage strategic platforms" Faker::Config.random = Random.new(42) Faker::Company.bs #=> "seize collaborative mindshare" Faker::Company.bs #=> "engage strategic platforms" Faker::Config.random = nil # seeds the PRNG using default entropy sources Faker::Config.random.seed #=> 185180369676275068918401850258677722187 Faker::Company.bs #=> "cultivate viral synergies" ``` Customization Since you may want to make addresses and other types of data look different depending on where in the world you are (US postal codes vs. UK postal codes, for example), Faker uses the I18n gem to store strings (like state names) and formats (US postal codes are NNNNN while UK postal codes are AAN NAA), allowing you to get different formats by switching locales. Just set Faker::Config.locale to the locale you want, and Faker will take care of the rest. If your locale doesnt already exist, create it in the \lib\locales\ directory and you can then override or add elements to suit your needs. See more about how to use locales here ```yaml en-au-ocker: faker: name: # Existing faker field, new data first_name: [Charlotte, Ava, Chloe, Emily] # New faker fields ocker_first_name: [Bazza, Bluey, Davo, Johno, Shano, Shazza] region: [South East Queensland, Wide Bay Burnett, Margaret River, Port Pirie, Gippsland, Elizabeth, Barossa] ``` Contributing See CONTRIBUTING.md. Contact Comments and feedback are welcome. Send an email to Benjamin Curtis via the google group. License This code is free to use under the terms of the MIT license.