SVProgressHUD SVProgressHUD is a clean and easy-to-use HUD meant to display the progress of an ongoing task on iOS and tvOS. Demo Try SVProgressHUD on Appetize.io. Installation From CocoaPods CocoaPods is a dependency manager for Objective-C, which automates and simplifies the process of using 3rd-party libraries like SVProgressHUD in your projects. First, add the following line to your Podfile: ruby pod SVProgressHUD If you want to use the latest features of SVProgressHUD use normal external source dependencies. ruby pod SVProgressHUD, :git => https://github.com/SVProgressHUD/SVProgressHUD.git This pulls from the master branch directly. Second, install SVProgressHUD into your project: ruby pod install Carthage Carthage is a decentralized dependency manager that builds your dependencies and provides you with binary frameworks. To integrate SVProgressHUD into your Xcode project using Carthage, specify it in your Cartfile: ogdl github "SVProgressHUD/SVProgressHUD" Run carthage bootstrap to build the framework in your repositorys Carthage directory. You can then include it in your targets carthage copy-frameworks build phase. For more information on this, please see Carthages documentation. Manually Drag the SVProgressHUD/SVProgressHUD folder into your project. Take care that SVProgressHUD.bundle is added to Targets->Build Phases->Copy Bundle Resources. Add the QuartzCore framework to your project. Swift Even though SVProgressHUD is written in Objective-C, it can be used in Swift with no hassle. If you use CocoaPods add the following line to your Podfile: ruby use_frameworks! If you added SVProgressHUD manually, just add a bridging header file to your project with the SVProgressHUD header included. Usage (see sample Xcode project in /Demo) SVProgressHUD is created as a singleton (i.e. it doesnt need to be explicitly allocated and instantiated; you directly call [SVProgressHUD method]). Use SVProgressHUD wisely! Only use it if you absolutely need to perform a task before taking the user forward. Bad use case examples: pull to refresh, infinite scrolling, sending message. Using SVProgressHUD in your app will usually look as simple as this (using Grand Central Dispatch): objective-c [SVProgressHUD show]; dispatch_async(dispatch_get_global_queue(DISPATCH_QUEUE_PRIORITY_DEFAULT, 0), ^{ // time-consuming task dispatch_async(dispatch_get_main_queue(), ^{ [SVProgressHUD dismiss]; }); }); Showing the HUD You can show the status of indeterminate tasks using one of the following: objective-c + (void)show; + (void)showWithStatus:(NSString*)string; If youd like the HUD to reflect the progress of a task, use one of these: objective-c + (void)showProgress:(CGFloat)progress; + (void)showProgress:(CGFloat)progress status:(NSString*)status; Dismissing the HUD The HUD can be dismissed using: objective-c + (void)dismiss; + (void)dismissWithDelay:(NSTimeInterval)delay; If youd like to stack HUDs, you can balance out every show call using: + (void)popActivity; The HUD will get dismissed once the popActivity calls will match the number of show calls. Or show a confirmation glyph before before getting dismissed a little bit later. The display time depends on minimumDismissTimeInterval and the length of the given string. objective-c + (void)showInfoWithStatus:(NSString*)string; + (void)showSuccessWithStatus:(NSString*)string; + (void)showErrorWithStatus:(NSString*)string; + (void)showImage:(UIImage*)image status:(NSString*)string; Customization SVProgressHUD can be customized via the following methods: objective-c + (void)setDefaultStyle:(SVProgressHUDStyle)style; // default is SVProgressHUDStyleLight + (void)setDefaultMaskType:(SVProgressHUDMaskType)maskType; // default is SVProgressHUDMaskTypeNone + (void)setDefaultAnimationType:(SVProgressHUDAnimationType)type; // default is SVProgressHUDAnimationTypeFlat + (void)setContainerView:(UIView*)containerView; // default is window level + (void)setMinimumSize:(CGSize)minimumSize; // default is CGSizeZero, can be used to avoid resizing + (void)setRingThickness:(CGFloat)width; // default is 2 pt + (void)setRingRadius:(CGFloat)radius; // default is 18 pt + (void)setRingNoTextRadius:(CGFloat)radius; // default is 24 pt + (void)setCornerRadius:(CGFloat)cornerRadius; // default is 14 pt + (void)setBorderColor:(nonnull UIColor*)color; // default is nil + (void)setBorderWidth:(CGFloat)width; // default is 0 + (void)setFont:(UIFont*)font; // default is [UIFont preferredFontForTextStyle:UIFontTextStyleSubheadline] + (void)setForegroundColor:(UIColor*)color; // default is [UIColor blackColor], only used for SVProgressHUDStyleCustom + (void)setBackgroundColor:(UIColor*)color; // default is [UIColor whiteColor], only used for SVProgressHUDStyleCustom + (void)setBackgroundLayerColor:(UIColor*)color; // default is [UIColor colorWithWhite:0 alpha:0.4], only used for SVProgressHUDMaskTypeCustom + (void)setImageViewSize:(CGSize)size; // default is 28x28 pt + (void)setShouldTintImages:(BOOL)shouldTintImages; // default is YES + (void)setInfoImage:(UIImage*)image; // default is the bundled info image provided by Freepik + (void)setSuccessImage:(UIImage*)image; // default is bundled success image from Freepik + (void)setErrorImage:(UIImage*)image; // default is bundled error image from Freepik + (void)setViewForExtension:(UIView*)view; // default is nil, only used if #define SV_APP_EXTENSIONS is set + (void)setGraceTimeInterval:(NSTimeInterval)interval; // default is 0 seconds + (void)setMinimumDismissTimeInterval:(NSTimeInterval)interval; // default is 5.0 seconds + (void)setMaximumDismissTimeInterval:(NSTimeInterval)interval; // default is CGFLOAT_MAX + (void)setFadeInAnimationDuration:(NSTimeInterval)duration; // default is 0.15 seconds + (void)setFadeOutAnimationDuration:(NSTimeInterval)duration; // default is 0.15 seconds + (void)setMaxSupportedWindowLevel:(UIWindowLevel)windowLevel; // default is UIWindowLevelNormal + (void)setHapticsEnabled:(BOOL)hapticsEnabled; // default is NO Additionally SVProgressHUD supports the UIAppearance protocol for most of the above methods. Hint As standard SVProgressHUD offers two preconfigured styles: SVProgressHUDStyleLight: White background with black spinner and text SVProgressHUDStyleDark: Black background with white spinner and text If you want to use custom colors use setForegroundColor and setBackgroundColor:. These implicitly set the HUDs style to SVProgressHUDStyleCustom. Haptic Feedback For users with newer devices (starting with the iPhone 7), SVProgressHUD can automatically trigger haptic feedback depending on which HUD is being displayed. The feedback maps as follows: showSuccessWithStatus: <-> UINotificationFeedbackTypeSuccess showInfoWithStatus: <-> UINotificationFeedbackTypeWarning showErrorWithStatus: <-> UINotificationFeedbackTypeError To enable this functionality, use setHapticsEnabled:. Users with devices prior to iPhone 7 will have no change in functionality. Notifications SVProgressHUD posts four notifications via NSNotificationCenter in response to being shown/dismissed: SVProgressHUDWillAppearNotification when the show animation starts SVProgressHUDDidAppearNotification when the show animation completes SVProgressHUDWillDisappearNotification when the dismiss animation starts SVProgressHUDDidDisappearNotification when the dismiss animation completes Each notification passes a userInfo dictionary holding the HUDs status string (if any), retrievable via SVProgressHUDStatusUserInfoKey. SVProgressHUD also posts SVProgressHUDDidReceiveTouchEventNotification when users touch on the overall screen or SVProgressHUDDidTouchDownInsideNotification when a user touches on the HUD directly. For this notifications userInfo is not passed but the object parameter contains the UIEvent that related to the touch. App Extensions When using SVProgressHUD in an App Extension, #define SV_APP_EXTENSIONS to avoid using unavailable APIs. Additionally call setViewForExtension: from your extensions view controller with self.view. Contributing to this project If you have feature requests or bug reports, feel free to help out by sending pull requests or by creating new issues. Please take a moment to review the guidelines written by Nicolas Gallagher: Bug reports Feature requests Pull requests License SVProgressHUD is distributed under the terms and conditions of the MIT license. The success, error and info icons are made by Freepik from Flaticon and are licensed under Creative Commons BY 3.0. Credits SVProgressHUD is brought to you by Sam Vermette, Tobias Tiemerding and contributors to the project. If youre using SVProgressHUD in your project, attribution would be very appreciated.