Swagger UI 👉🏼 Want to score an easy open-source contribution? Check out our Good first issue label. 🕰️ Looking for the older version of Swagger UI? Refer to the 2.x branch. This repository publishes to two different NPM modules: swagger-ui is a traditional npm module intended for use in single-page applications that are capable of resolving dependencies (via Webpack, Browserify, etc). swagger-ui-dist is a dependency-free module that includes everything you need to serve Swagger-UI in a server-side project, or a single-page application that cant resolve npm module dependencies. We strongly suggest that you use swagger-ui instead of swagger-ui-dist if youre building a single-page application, since swagger-ui-dist is significantly larger. Compatibility The OpenAPI Specification has undergone 5 revisions since initial creation in 2010. Compatibility between Swagger UI and the OpenAPI Specification is as follows: Swagger UI Version | Release Date | OpenAPI Spec compatibility | Notes ------------------ | ------------ | -------------------------- | ----- 3.17.3 | 2018-06-16 | 2.0, 3.0 | tag v3.17.3 3.0.21 | 2017-07-26 | 2.0 | tag v3.0.21 2.2.10 | 2017-01-04 | 1.1, 1.2, 2.0 | tag v2.2.10 2.1.5 | 2016-07-20 | 1.1, 1.2, 2.0 | tag v2.1.5 2.0.24 | 2014-09-12 | 1.1, 1.2 | tag v2.0.24 1.0.13 | 2013-03-08 | 1.1, 1.2 | tag v1.0.13 1.0.1 | 2011-10-11 | 1.0, 1.1 | tag v1.0.1 Documentation Usage Installation Configuration CORS OAuth2 Deep Linking Limitations Version detection Customization Overview Plugin API Custom layout Development Setting up Scripts Integration Tests You will need JDK of version 7 or higher as instructed here http://nightwatchjs.org/gettingstarted#selenium-server-setup Integration tests can be run locally with npm run e2e - be sure you arent running a dev server when testing! Browser support Swagger UI works in the latest versions of Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Edge and IE11. Known Issues To help with the migration, here are the currently known issues with 3.X. This list will update regularly, and will not include features that were not implemented in previous versions. Only part of the parameters previously supported are available. The JSON Form Editor is not implemented. Support for collectionFormat is partial. l10n (translations) is not implemented. Relative path support for external files is not implemented. Security contact Please disclose any security-related issues or vulnerabilities by emailing security@swagger.io, instead of using the public issue tracker. License Copyright 2018 SmartBear Software Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.