Goals Syncthing is a continuous file synchronization program. It synchronizes files between two or more computers. We strive to fulfill the goals below. The goals are listed in order of importance, the most important one being the first. This is the summary version of the goal list - for more commentary, see the full Goals document. Syncthing should be: Safe From Data Loss Protecting the users data is paramount. We take every reasonable precaution to avoid corrupting the users files. Secure Against Attackers Again, protecting the users data is paramount. Regardless of our other goals we must never allow the users data to be susceptible to eavesdropping or modification by unauthorized parties. Easy to Use Syncthing should be approachable, understandable and inclusive. Automatic User interaction should be required only when absolutely necessary. Universally Available Syncthing should run on every common computer. We are mindful that the latest technology is not always available to any given individual. For Individuals Syncthing is primarily about empowering the individual user with safe, secure and easy to use file synchronization. Everything Else There are many things we care about that dont make it on to the list. It is fine to optimize for these values, as long as they are not in conflict with the stated goals above. Getting Started Take a look at the getting started guide. There are a few examples for keeping Syncthing running in the background on your system in the etc directory. There are also several GUI implementations for Windows, Mac and Linux. Vote on features/bugs Wed like to encourage you to vote on issues that matter to you. This helps the team understand what are the biggest pain points for our users, and could potentially influence what is being worked on next. Getting in Touch The first and best point of contact is the Forum. There is also an IRC channel, #syncthing on freenode (with a web client), for talking directly to developers and users. If youve found something that is clearly a bug, feel free to report it in the GitHub issue tracker. Building Building Syncthing from source is easy, and theres a guide that describes it for both Unix and Windows systems. Signed Releases As of v0.10.15 and onwards release binaries are GPG signed with the key D26E6ED000654A3E, available from https://syncthing.net/security.html and most key servers. There is also a built in automatic upgrade mechanism (disabled in some distribution channels) which uses a compiled in ECDSA signature. macOS binaries are also properly code signed. Documentation Please see the Syncthing documentation site. All code is licensed under the MPLv2 License.