SystemJS Configurable module loader enabling dynamic ES module workflows in browsers and NodeJS. SystemJS 0.20 release notes SystemJS is currently sponsored by Canopy Tax. Loads any module format when running the ~15KB development build. Loads ES modules compiled into the System.register module format for production with exact circular reference and binding support Supports RequireJS-style map, paths, and bundles configuration. Built with the ES Module Loader project, which is based on principles and APIs from the WhatWG Loader specification, modules in HTML and NodeJS. For discussion, join the Gitter Room. Documentation Getting Started Module Formats Production Workflows Configuration API System API Plugins Creating Plugins Production Build and Resolution Basic Use Browser Development html <script src="systemjs/dist/system.js"></script> <script> SystemJS.import(/js/main.js); </script> The above will support loading all module formats. To load ES6 code with in-browser transpilation, one of the following transpiler plugins must be configured: Babel TypeScript Traceur Browser Production When all modules are available as either system, amd or global module formats, and no package configurations or plugins are needed, a production-only loader can be used: html <script src="systemjs/dist/system-production.js"></script> <script> SystemJS.import(/js/main.js); </script> Configuration support in the production loader includes baseURL, paths, map, depCache and wasm. NodeJS To load modules in NodeJS, install SystemJS with: npm install systemjs If transpiling ES modules, install the transpiler plugin following the instructions from the transpiler project page. We can then load modules equivalently in NodeJS as we do in the browser: ```javascript var SystemJS = require(systemjs); // loads ./app.js from the current directory SystemJS.import(./app.js).then(function (m) { console.log(m); }); ``` To import a module with the NodeJS module resolution, import with import moduleName from @node/module-name. Running the tests npm run build && npm run test License MIT