Tabler Premium and Open Source dashboard template with responsive and high quality UI. View Demo | Download ZIP | Join us on Slack Features We created this admin panel for everyone who wants to create any templates based on our pre-made components. Our mission is to deliver a user-friendly, clear and easy administration panel, that can be used by both, simple websites and sophisticated systems. The only requirement is a basic HTML and CSS knowledge—as a reward, youll be able to manage and visualize different types of data in the easiest possible way! Responsive: With support for mobile, tablet and desktop it doesnt matter what device youre using. Tabler is responsive in all major browsers. Cross Browser: Our theme works perfectly with: Latest Chrome, Firefox+, Latest Safari, Opera, Internet Explorer 10+ and mobile browsers. We work hard to continuously support them. HTML5 & CSS3: We only use modern web technologies like HTML5 and CSS3. Our theme includes some subtile CSS3 animations so you will get anyones attention. Clean Code: We strictly followed Bootstraps guidelines to make your integration as easy as possible. All code is handwritten and W3c valid. Demo pages: Tabler features over 20 individual pages featuring various components, giving you the freedom of choosing and combining. All components can take variation in color and styling, that can easily be modified using Sass. The sky is the limit! Status Documentation For full documentation, visit tabler.github.io/tabler/docs. Getting Started Download ZIP or Git Clone git clone https://github.com/tabler/tabler.git Setup environment To use our build system and run documentation locally, you will need a copy of Tablers source files and Node. Follow the steps below: Download and install Node.js, which is used to manage our dependencies. Navigate to the root /tabler directory and run npm install to install local dependencies listed in package.json. Install Ruby, install Bundler with gem install bundler, and finally run bundle install. This will install all Ruby dependencies, such as Jekyll and plugins. Windows users: Read this guide to get Jekyll up and running without problems. When completed, you will be able to run the various commands provided in the command line. Build Tabler From the root /tabler directory, run npm run serve in the command line. Open http://localhost:4000 in your browser, and voilà. Any change in /src directory will build application and refresh the page. Warning! all changes made in _site/ folder would be overwritten on application build. Development preview All changes made on dev branch are avaliable on http://tabler.codecalm.net/dev/. Every change in the code automatically compiles the source code. Bugs and feature requests Have a bug or a feature request? Please open a new issue. Browser Support | | | | | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- Latest ✔ | Latest ✔ | Latest ✔ | 11+ ✔ | 9.1+ ✔ | Latest ✔ Creators Paweł Kuna https://twitter.com/codecalm https://github.com/codecalm https://codecalm.net Copyright and license Code and documentation copyright 2018 the Tabler Authors and codecalm.net. Code released under the MIT License.