VasSonic: A Lightweight And High-performance Hybrid Framework VasSonic is a lightweight and high-performance Hybrid framework developed by tencent VAS team, which is intended to speed up the first screen of websites working on Android and iOS platform. Not only does VasSonic supports the static or dynamic websites which are rendered by server, but it is also compatible with web offline resource perfectly. VasSonic uses custom url connection instead of original network connection to request the index html, so it can request resource in advance or parallel to avoid waiting for the view initialization. In this parallel case, VasSonic can read and render partial data by WebKit or Blink kernel without spending too much time waiting for the end of data stream. VasSonic can cache html cleverly according to VasSonic Specification obeyed by client and server. VasSonic Specification specify template and data by inserting different comment anchor, templates are bigger parts of html which stay the same or changed rarely , in contradiction data, which is the smaller and constantly change part of html. According to this, VasSonic request less data by incremental updating templates and data, the websites are faster and feel more like native application. In conclusion, VasSonic effectively enhance the user experience and increase click rate, retention rate and other indicators. Sonic is called for short in project. Before VS After Using VasSonic Pic 1: Before Using VasSonic | Pic 2: After Using VasSonic :-------------------------:|:-------------------------: | Getting started Getting started with Android Getting started with iOS Getting started with Java Getting started with Node.js Getting started with PHP Getting started with React Demo Downloads Here are the latest sample demo for Android and iOS. Support Any problem? Learn more from the following sample. Android sample iOS sample Java sample Node.js sample PHP sample React sample Read the following source code Android source code iOS source code Java source code Node.js source code PHP source code React source code Read the wiki for help. Contact us or scan QR code for help. Contributing For more information about contributing issues or pull requests, see our VasSonic Contributing Guide. License VasSonic is under the BSD license. See the LICENSE file for details. The End If you are interested in VasSonic, dont forget to STAR it. VasSonics mission is MAKING WEB MUCH BETTER! Thank you for reading ~