Tesseract OCR About This package contains an OCR engine - libtesseract and a command line program - tesseract. The lead developer is Ray Smith. The maintainer is Zdenko Podobny. For a list of contributors see AUTHORS and GitHubs log of contributors. Tesseract has unicode (UTF-8) support, and can recognize more than 100 languages "out of the box". Tesseract supports various output formats: plain-text, hocr(html), pdf, tsv, invisible-text-only pdf. You should note that in many cases, in order to get better OCR results, youll need to improve the quality of the image you are giving Tesseract. This project does not include a GUI application. If you need one, please see the 3rdParty wiki page. Tesseract can be trained to recognize other languages. See Tesseract Training for more information. Brief history Tesseract was originally developed at Hewlett-Packard Laboratories Bristol and at Hewlett-Packard Co, Greeley Colorado between 1985 and 1994, with some more changes made in 1996 to port to Windows, and some C++izing in 1998. In 2005 Tesseract was open sourced by HP. Since 2006 it is developed by Google. The latest stable version is 3.05.01, released on June 1, 2017. Latest source code for 3.05 is available from 3.05 branch on GitHub. Source code for the new LSTM based 4.0 version is available from the master branch on GitHub. Please note this branch is under active development. See Release Notes and Change Log for more details of the releases. Installing Tesseract You can either Install Tesseract via pre-built binary package or build it from source. Supported Compilers are: GCC 4.8 and above Clang 3.4 and above MSVC 2015, 2017 Other compilers might work, but are not officially supported. Running Tesseract Basic command line usage: tesseract imagename outputbase [-l lang] [--oem ocrenginemode] [--psm pagesegmode] [configfiles...] For more information about the various command line options use tesseract --help or man tesseract. For developers Developers can use libtesseract C or C++ API to build their own application. If you need bindings to libtesseract for other programming languages, please see the wrapper section on AddOns wiki page. Documentation of Tesseract generated from source code by doxygen can be found on tesseract-ocr.github.io. Support Before you submit an issue, please review the guidelines for this repository. For support, first read the Wiki, particularly the FAQ to see if your problem is addressed there. If not, search the Tesseract user forum, the Tesseract developer forum and past issues, and if you still cant find what you need, ask for support in the mailing-lists. Mailing-lists: tesseract-ocr - For tesseract users. tesseract-dev - For tesseract developers. Please report an issue only for a bug, not for asking questions. License The code in this repository is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. NOTE: This software depends on other packages that may be licensed under different open source licenses. Latest Version of README For the latest online version of the README.md see: https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/blob/master/README.md