Bootswatch Bootswatch is a collection of open source themes for Bootstrap. Check it out at bootswatch.com. Usage There are a few different ways you can integrate Bootswatch into your project. Via Pre-compiled Asset Download the bootstrap.min.css file associated with a theme and replace Bootstraps default stylesheet. You must still include Bootstraps JavaScript file to have functional dropdowns, modals, etc. Via CDN Similar to above, but you can hotlink to the appropriate bootstrap.min.css hosted on BootstrapCDN. Via Sass Imports If youre using Sass (SCSS) in your project, you can import the _variables.scss and _bootswatch.scss files for a given theme. This method allows you to override theme variables. ```scss // Your variable overrides go here, e.g.: // $h1-font-size: 3rem; @import "~bootswatch/dist/[theme]/variables"; @import "~bootstrap/scss/bootstrap"; @import "~bootswatch/dist/[theme]/bootswatch"; ``` Make sure to import Bootstraps bootstrap.scss in between _variables.scss and _bootswatch.scss! Via NPM You can install as a package with the command npm install bootswatch. Via Ruby Gem In your Ruby project, you can access the latest version of each theme by adding the following to your Gemfile and running bundle install: ruby gem "bootswatch", github: "thomaspark/bootswatch" Each theme directory is then accessible via the path "#{Gem.loaded_specs["bootswatch"].load_paths.first}/[theme]". Ruby on Rails users can add the following to an initializer (e.g. config/initializers/bootswatch.rb): ruby Rails.application.config.assets.paths += Gem.loaded_specs["bootswatch"].load_paths And thus be able to import themes via Sass like so: scss @import "[theme]/variables"; @import "~bootstrap/scss/bootstrap"; @import "[theme]/bootswatch"; Via API A simple JSON API is available for integrating your platform with Bootswatch. More info can be found on the Help page. Customization Bootswatch is open source and youre welcome to modify the themes. Each theme consists of two SASS files. _variables.scss, which is included by default in Bootstrap, allows you to customize the settings. _bootswatch.scss introduces more extensive structural changes. Check out the Help page for more details on building your own theme. Contributing Its through your contributions that Bootswatch will continue to improve. You can contribute in several ways. Issues: Provide a detailed report of any bugs you encounter and open an issue on GitHub. Documentation: If youd like to fix a typo or beef up the docs, you can fork the project, make your changes, and submit a pull request. Code: Make a fix and submit it as a pull request. When making changes, its important to keep the CSS and SASS versions in sync. To do this, be sure to edit the SASS source files for the particular theme first, then run the tasks grunt swatch to build the CSS. Donation: Donations are gratefully accepted via PayPal and Bitcoin at 1EMqwwjqJrfyoPqmxNM7buzU6DmySZnHBK. Author Thomas Park https://github.com/thomaspark https://thomaspark.co Thanks Mark Otto and Jacob Thornton for Bootstrap. Jenil Gogari for his contributions to the Flatly theme. James Taylor for cors-lite. Corey Sewell for SASS conversion. Copyright and License Copyright 2014-2018 Thomas Park Code released under the MIT License.