Laptop Laptop is a script to set up an macOS laptop for web and mobile development. It can be run multiple times on the same machine safely. It installs, upgrades, or skips packages based on what is already installed on the machine. Requirements We support: macOS Mavericks (10.9) macOS Yosemite (10.10) macOS El Capitan (10.11) macOS Sierra (10.12) Older versions may work but arent regularly tested. Bug reports for older versions are welcome. Install Download the script: sh curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thoughtbot/laptop/master/mac Review the script (avoid running scripts you havent read!): sh less mac Execute the downloaded script: sh sh mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log Optionally, review the log: sh less ~/laptop.log Optionally, install thoughtbot/dotfiles. Debugging Your last Laptop run will be saved to ~/laptop.log. Read through it to see if you can debug the issue yourself. If not, copy the lines where the script failed into a new GitHub Issue for us. Or, attach the whole log file as an attachment. What it sets up macOS tools: Homebrew for managing operating system libraries. Unix tools: Exuberant Ctags for indexing files for vim tab completion Git for version control OpenSSL for Transport Layer Security (TLS) RCM for managing company and personal dotfiles The Silver Searcher for finding things in files Tmux for saving project state and switching between projects Watchman for watching for filesystem events Zsh as your shell Heroku tools: Heroku CLI and Parity for interacting with the Heroku API GitHub tools: Hub for interacting with the GitHub API Image tools: ImageMagick for cropping and resizing images Testing tools: Qt 5 for headless JavaScript testing via Capybara Webkit Programming languages, package managers, and configuration: ASDF for managing programming language versions Bundler for managing Ruby libraries Node.js and NPM, for running apps and installing JavaScript packages Ruby stable for writing general-purpose code Yarn for managing JavaScript packages Databases: Postgres for storing relational data Redis for storing key-value data It should take less than 15 minutes to install (depends on your machine). Customize in ~/.laptop.local Your ~/.laptop.local is run at the end of the Laptop script. Put your customizations there. For example: ```sh !/bin/sh brew bundle --file=- <<EOF brew "Caskroom/cask/dockertoolbox" brew "go" brew "ngrok" brew "watch" EOF default_docker_machine() { docker-machine ls | grep -Fq "default" } if ! default_docker_machine; then docker-machine create --driver virtualbox default fi default_docker_machine_running() { default_docker_machine | grep -Fq "Running" } if ! default_docker_machine_running; then docker-machine start default fi fancy_echo "Cleaning up old Homebrew formulae ..." brew cleanup brew cask cleanup if [ -r "$HOME/.rcrc" ]; then fancy_echo "Updating dotfiles ..." rcup fi ``` Write your customizations such that they can be run safely more than once. See the mac script for examples. Laptop functions such as fancy_echo and gem_install_or_update can be used in your ~/.laptop.local. See the wiki for more customization examples. Contributing Edit the mac file. Document in the README.md file. Follow shell style guidelines by using ShellCheck and Syntastic. sh brew install shellcheck Thank you, contributors! By participating in this project, you agree to abide by the thoughtbot code of conduct. License Laptop is © 2011-2017 thoughtbot, inc. It is free software, and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the LICENSE file. About thoughtbot Laptop is maintained and funded by thoughtbot, inc. The names and logos for thoughtbot are trademarks of thoughtbot, inc. We are passionate about open source software. See our other projects. We are available for hire.