A Lightweight Sass Tool Set Bourbon is a library of Sass mixins and functions that are designed to make you a more efficient style sheet author. It is… Dependency-free: Bourbon is pure Sass. Human-readable: We aim for clarity over brevity. Lightweight: Zero output post-install and has no visual opinion. Helpful Links Documentation Change log Twitter Stack Overflow Table of Contents Requirements Installation Command Line Interface Browser Support The Bourbon Family Contributing License About Requirements Sass 3.4+ or LibSass 3.3+ Installation Install the Bourbon gem using the RubyGems package manager: bash gem install bourbon Alternatively, you can install Bourbon with Bower. Install the Bourbon library into the current directory: bash bourbon install Pro Tip: You can target installation into a specific directory using the path flag: bash bourbon install --path my/custom/path/ Import Bourbon at the beginning of your stylesheet: scss @import "bourbon/bourbon"; Its not recommended that you modify Bourbons files directly as it will make updating to future versions difficult, by overwriting your custom changes or causing merge conflicts. Installation for Ruby on Rails 4.2+ Add Bourbon to your Gemfile: ruby gem "bourbon" Then run: bash bundle install Restart your server and rename application.css to application.scss: bash mv app/assets/stylesheets/application.css app/assets/stylesheets/application.scss Delete all Sprockets directives in application.scss (require, require_tree and require_self) and use Sasss native @import instead (why?). Import Bourbon at the beginning of application.scss. Any project styles that utilize Bourbons features must be imported after Bourbon. scss @import "bourbon"; @import "home"; @import "users"; Installing with npm and using a Node-based asset pipeline Add Bourbon as a dependency: bash npm install --save bourbon If youre using eyeglass, skip to Step 3. Otherwise, youll need to add Bourbon to your node-sass includePaths option. require("bourbon").includePaths is an array of directories that you should pass to node-sass. How you do this depends on how node-sass is integrated into your project. Import Bourbon into your Sass files: scss @import "bourbon"; Pro Tip: Check out this example gulp project that uses Bourbon and Neat. Installing older versions of Bourbon Uninstall any Bourbon gem versions you already have: bash gem uninstall bourbon Reinstall the Bourbon gem, using the -v flag to specify the version you need: bash gem install bourbon -v 4.2.7 Follow the instructions above to install Bourbon into your project. Command Line Interface bash bourbon [options] Options | Option | Description | | :---------------- | :------------------------ | | -h, --help | Show help | | -v, --version | Show the version number | | --path | Specify a custom path | | --force | Force install (overwrite) | Commands | Command | Description | | :---------------- | :---------------------------------------------------- | | bourbon install | Install Bourbon into the current directory | | bourbon update | Overwrite and update Bourbon in the current directory | | bourbon help | Show help | Browser Support Bourbon supports Internet Explorer 11+ and the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. The Bourbon Family Bourbon is part of a larger, modular family of Sass utilities: Neat: A lightweight and flexible Sass grid Bitters: Scaffold styles, variables and structure for Bourbon projects Contributing See the contributing document. Thank you, contributors! License Bourbon is copyright © 2011-2018 thoughtbot, inc. It is free software, and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the license. About Bourbon is maintained by Tyson Gach and the thoughtbot design team. It is funded by thoughtbot, inc. and the names and logos for thoughtbot are trademarks of thoughtbot, inc. We love open-source software! See our other projects or hire us to design, develop, and grow your product.