Truffle is a development environment, testing framework and asset pipeline for Ethereum, aiming to make life as an Ethereum developer easier. With Truffle, you get: Built-in smart contract compilation, linking, deployment and binary management. Automated contract testing with Mocha and Chai. Configurable build pipeline with support for custom build processes. Scriptable deployment & migrations framework. Network management for deploying to many public & private networks. Interactive console for direct contract communication. Instant rebuilding of assets during development. External script runner that executes scripts within a Truffle environment. Install $ npm install -g truffle Quick Usage For a default set of contracts and tests, run the following within an empty project directory: $ truffle init From there, you can run truffle compile, truffle migrate and truffle test to compile your contracts, deploy those contracts to the network, and run their associated unit tests. Truffle comes bundled with a local development blockchain server that launches automatically when you invoke the commands above. If youd like to configure a more advanced development environment we recommend you install the blockchain server separately by running npm install -g ganache-cli at the command line. ganache-cli: a command-line version of Truffles blockchain server. ganache: A GUI for the server that displays your transaction history and chain state. Documentation Please see the Official Truffle Documentation for guides, tips, and examples. Development We welcome pull requests. To get started, just fork this repo, clone it locally, and run: ```shell Install npm install -g lerna npm install -g yarn npm run bootstrap Test npm test Adding dependencies to a package cd packages/ yarn add [--dev] # Use yarn ``` If youd like to update a dependency to the same version across all packages, you might find this utility helpful. License MIT