The project is maintained by a non-profit organisation called the Ghost Foundation, along with an amazing group of independent contributors. Were trying to make publishing software that changes the shape of online journalism. Ghost.org Supported Node Versions Latest Release Help & Support Theme Docs API Docs Contributing Guide Developer Blog Self-hoster Docs NOTE: If youre stuck, cant get something working or need some help, please head on over and join our forum rather than opening an issue. Hosting a live Ghost site The easiest way to deploy Ghost is with our official Ghost(Pro) managed service. You can have a fresh instance up and running in a couple of clicks with a worldwide CDN, backups, security and maintenance all done for you. Not only will it save you hours of maintenance per month, but all revenue goes to the Ghost Foundation, which funds the maintenance and further development of Ghost itself. So youll be supporting open source software and getting a great service at the same time! Talk about win/win. :trophy: Self-Hosters Other options are also available if you prefer playing around with servers by yourself, of course. The freedom of choice is in your hands. Self-hosting Guide Theme Developers If you are developing a Ghost theme for your own site or creating themes for others to use we recommend installing Ghost on your own local machine. Luckily we have a brand new Ghost CLI to make this really easy 😄 Installing Ghost via the CLI Theme Developer Docs Contributors & Advanced Developers For anyone wishing to contribute to Ghost or to hack/customise core files we recommend following our development setup guides: General Contributor Guide Developer Setup Instructions Admin Client development guide Staying Up to Date When a new version of Ghost comes out, youll want to look over these upgrade instructions for what to do next. You can talk to other Ghost users and developers in our forum (its pretty awesome). New releases are announced on the dev blog. You can subscribe by email or follow @TryGhost_Dev on Twitter, if you prefer your updates bite-sized and facetious. :saxophone::turtle: Copyright & License Copyright (c) 2013-2018 Ghost Foundation - Released under the MIT license. Ghost and the Ghost Logo are trademarks of Ghost Foundation Ltd. Please see our trademark policy for info on acceptable usage.