Bootstrap Bootstrap is a sleek, intuitive, and powerful front-end framework for faster and easier web development, created by Mark Otto and Jacob Thornton, and maintained by the core team with the massive support and involvement of the community. To get started, check out http://getbootstrap.com! Table of contents Quick start Bugs and feature requests Documentation Contributing Community Versioning Creators Copyright and license Quick start Several quick start options are available: Download the latest release. Clone the repo: git clone https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap.git. Install with Bower: bower install bootstrap. Install with npm: npm install bootstrap@3. Install with Meteor: meteor add twbs:bootstrap. Install with Composer: composer require twbs/bootstrap. Read the Getting started page for information on the framework contents, templates and examples, and more. Whats included Within the download youll find the following directories and files, logically grouping common assets and providing both compiled and minified variations. Youll see something like this: bootstrap/ ├── css/ │ ├── bootstrap.css │ ├── bootstrap.css.map │ ├── bootstrap.min.css │ ├── bootstrap.min.css.map │ ├── bootstrap-theme.css │ ├── bootstrap-theme.css.map │ ├── bootstrap-theme.min.css │ └── bootstrap-theme.min.css.map ├── js/ │ ├── bootstrap.js │ └── bootstrap.min.js └── fonts/ ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.eot ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.svg ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.ttf ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.woff └── glyphicons-halflings-regular.woff2 We provide compiled CSS and JS (bootstrap.*), as well as compiled and minified CSS and JS (bootstrap.min.*). CSS source maps (bootstrap.*.map) are available for use with certain browsers developer tools. Fonts from Glyphicons are included, as is the optional Bootstrap theme. Bugs and feature requests Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the issue guidelines and search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, please open a new issue. Note that feature requests must target Bootstrap v4, because Bootstrap v3 is now in maintenance mode and is closed off to new features. This is so that we can focus our efforts on Bootstrap v4. Documentation Bootstraps documentation, included in this repo in the root directory, is built with Jekyll and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages at http://getbootstrap.com. The docs may also be run locally. Running documentation locally If necessary, install Jekyll and other Ruby dependencies with bundle install. Note for Windows users: Read this unofficial guide to get Jekyll up and running without problems. From the root /bootstrap directory, run bundle exec jekyll serve in the command line. Open http://localhost:9001 in your browser, and voilà. Learn more about using Jekyll by reading its documentation. Documentation for previous releases Documentation for v2.3.2 has been made available for the time being at http://getbootstrap.com/2.3.2/ while folks transition to Bootstrap 3. Previous releases and their documentation are also available for download. Contributing Please read through our contributing guidelines. Included are directions for opening issues, coding standards, and notes on development. Moreover, if your pull request contains JavaScript patches or features, you must include relevant unit tests. All HTML and CSS should conform to the Code Guide, maintained by Mark Otto. Bootstrap v3 is now closed off to new features. It has gone into maintenance mode so that we can focus our efforts on Bootstrap v4, the future of the framework. Pull requests which add new features (rather than fix bugs) should target Bootstrap v4 (the v4-dev git branch) instead. Editor preferences are available in the editor config for easy use in common text editors. Read more and download plugins at http://editorconfig.org. Community Get updates on Bootstraps development and chat with the project maintainers and community members. Follow @getbootstrap on Twitter. Read and subscribe to The Official Bootstrap Blog. Join the official Slack room. Chat with fellow Bootstrappers in IRC. On the irc.freenode.net server, in the ##bootstrap channel. Implementation help may be found at Stack Overflow (tagged twitter-bootstrap-3). Developers should use the keyword bootstrap on packages which modify or add to the functionality of Bootstrap when distributing through npm or similar delivery mechanisms for maximum discoverability. Versioning For transparency into our release cycle and in striving to maintain backward compatibility, Bootstrap is maintained under the Semantic Versioning guidelines. Sometimes we screw up, but well adhere to those rules whenever possible. See the Releases section of our GitHub project for changelogs for each release version of Bootstrap. Release announcement posts on the official Bootstrap blog contain summaries of the most noteworthy changes made in each release. Creators Mark Otto https://twitter.com/mdo https://github.com/mdo Jacob Thornton https://twitter.com/fat https://github.com/fat Copyright and license Code and documentation copyright 2011-2016 Twitter, Inc. Code released under the MIT license. Docs released under Creative Commons.