tween.js JavaScript tweening engine for easy animations, incorporating optimised Robert Penners equations. ```javascript var box = document.createElement(div); box.style.setProperty(background-color, #008800); box.style.setProperty(width, 100px); box.style.setProperty(height, 100px); document.body.appendChild(box); // Setup the animation loop. function animate(time) { requestAnimationFrame(animate); TWEEN.update(time); } requestAnimationFrame(animate); var coords = { x: 0, y: 0 }; // Start at (0, 0) var tween = new TWEEN.Tween(coords) // Create a new tween that modifies coords. .to({ x: 300, y: 200 }, 1000) // Move to (300, 200) in 1 second. .easing(TWEEN.Easing.Quadratic.Out) // Use an easing function to make the animation smooth. .onUpdate(function() { // Called after tween.js updates coords. // Move box to the position described by coords with a CSS translation. box.style.setProperty(transform, translate( + coords.x + px, + coords.y + px)); }) .start(); // Start the tween immediately. ``` Test it with CodePen Installation Download the library and include it in your code: html <script src="js/Tween.js"></script> You can also reference a CDN-hosted version in your code, thanks to cdnjs. For example: html <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/tween.js/16.3.5/Tween.min.js"></script> See tween.js for more versions. More advanced users might want to... Use npm bash npm install @tweenjs/tween.js Then include the Tween.js module with the standard node.js require: javascript var TWEEN = require(@tweenjs/tween.js); And you can use Tween.js as in all other examples--for example: javascript var t = new TWEEN.Tween( /* etc */ ); t.start(); You will need to use a tool such as browserify to convert code using this style into something that can be run in the browser (browsers dont know about require). Use bower bash bower install @tweenjs/tweenjs --save or install an specific tag. They are git tags, and you can run git tag in the command line for a list if you have cloned the repository locally, or you can also check out the list in the tween.js tags page. For example, to install v16.3.0: bash bower install @tweenjs/tweenjs#v16.3.0 Then reference the library source: html <script src="bower_components/@tweenjs/tweenjs/src/Tween.js"></script> Features Does one thing and one thing only: tween properties Doesnt take care of CSS units (e.g. appending px) Doesnt interpolate colours Easing functions are reusable outside of Tween Can also use custom easing functions Documentation User guide Contributor guide Tutorial using tween.js with three.js Also: libtween, a port of tween.js to C by jsm174 Also: es6-tween, a port of tween.js to ES6/Harmony by dalisoft Understanding tween.js Examples Custom functions (source) Stop all chained tweens (source) Yoyo (source) Relative values (source) Repeat (source) Dynamic to (source) Array interpolation (source) Video and time (source) Simplest possible example (source) Graphs (source) Black and red (source) Bars (source) hello world (source) Tests You need to install npm first--this comes with node.js, so install that one first. Then, cd to tween.jss directory and run: bash npm install if running the tests for the first time, to install additional dependencies for running tests, and then run bash npm test every time you want to run the tests. If you want to add any feature or change existing features, you must run the tests to make sure you didnt break anything else. If you send a pull request (PR) to add something new and it doesnt have tests, or the tests dont pass, the PR wont be accepted. See contributing for more information. People Maintainers: mikebolt, sole. All contributors. Projects using tween.js