Finagle Status This project is used in production at Twitter (and many other organizations), and is being actively developed and maintained. Releases Releases are done on an approximately monthly schedule. While semver is not followed, the changelogs are detailed and include sections on public API breaks and changes in runtime behavior. Getting involved Website: https://twitter.github.io/finagle/ Source: https://github.com/twitter/finagle/ Mailing List: finaglers@googlegroups.com Chat: https://gitter.im/twitter/finagle Blog: https://finagle.github.io/blog/ Finagle is an extensible RPC system for the JVM, used to construct high-concurrency servers. Finagle implements uniform client and server APIs for several protocols, and is designed for high performance and concurrency. Most of Finagles code is protocol agnostic, simplifying the implementation of new protocols. For extensive documentation, please see the user guide and API documentation websites. Documentation improvements are always welcome, so please send patches our way. Adopters The following are a few of the companies that are using Finagle: Foursquare ING Bank Pinterest SoundCloud Tumblr Twitter For a more complete list, please see our adopter page. If your organization is using Finagle, consider adding a link there and sending us a pull request! Contributing We feel that a welcoming community is important and we ask that you follow Twitters Open Source Code of Conduct in all interactions with the community. The master branch of this repository contains the latest stable release of Finagle, and weekly snapshots are published to the develop branch. In general pull requests should be submitted against develop. See CONTRIBUTING.md for more details about how to contribute.