husky Git hooks made easy Husky can prevent bad commit, push and more :dog: woof! New beta version available here. Feedback and bug reports welcome :wink: Install sh npm install husky --save-dev yarn add husky --dev javascript // Edit package.json { "scripts": { "precommit": "npm test", "prepush": "npm test", "...": "..." } } bash git commit -m "Keep calm and commit" Existing hooks arent replaced and you can use any Git hook. If youre migrating from ghooks, simply run npm uninstall ghooks --save-dev && npm install husky --save-dev and edit package.json. Husky will automatically migrate ghooks hooks. Used by jQuery Next.js Hyper Paper.js Kibana JSON Server Hotel ... and 12000+ other awesome projects. Uninstall sh npm uninstall husky sh yarn remove husky Tricks Debug hooks easily If you need to debug hooks, simply use npm run <script-name>. For example: bash npm run precommit Git GUI clients support If youve installed Node using the standard installer, nvm or homebrew, Git hooks will be executed in GUI applications. Working with multiple version of Node If nvm is installed, husky will try to use the default/current installed Node version or use the project .nvmrc. Tip to use the system-installed version of node, nvm provides a system alias Accessing Git params Git params can be found in GIT_PARAMS environment variable. Setting a different log level By default, husky will run scripts using --silent to make the output more readable. If you want to override this, simply pass a different log level to your scripts: json "precommit": "npm run some-script -q" -q/--quiet is equivalent to --loglevel warn which is npm default log level. Git submodule and subtree support Yes Cygwin support Yes Yarn support Please use yarn v0.24+ See also pkg-ok - Prevents publishing modules with bad paths please-upgrade-node - Show a message to upgrade Node instead of a stacktrace in your CLIs react-fake-props - Fake props for your React tests License MIT - Typicode :cactus: - Patreon