Intro.js v2.9.3 Better introductions for websites and features with a step-by-step guide for your projects. Where to get You can obtain your local copy of Intro.js from: 1) This github repository, using git clone https://github.com/usablica/intro.js.git 2) Using bower bower install intro.js --save 3) Using npm npm install intro.js --save 4) Download it from CDN (1, 2) How to use Intro.js can be added to your site in three simple steps: 1) Include intro.js and introjs.css (or the minified version for production) in your page. Use introjs-rtl.min.css for Right-to-Left language support. CDN hosted files are available at jsDelivr (click Show More) & cdnjs. 2) Add data-intro and data-step to your HTML elements. To add hints you should use data-hint attribute. For example: ```html ```` See all attributes here. 3) Call this JavaScript function: ```javascript introJs().start(); ```` Optionally, pass one parameter to introJs function to limit the presentation section. For example introJs(".introduction-farm").start(); runs the introduction only for elements with class=introduction-farm. Documentation Please visit Documentation. Using with: Intro.js has many wrappers for different purposes. Please visit Documentation for more info. Build First you should install nodejs and npm, then first run this command: npm install to install all dependencies. Now you can run this command to minify all static resources: make build Instant IntroJs Want to learn faster and easier? Here we have Instant IntroJs, Packt Publishing. Buy and Download Release History Authors Afshin Mehrabani Twitter Github Personal page Benjamin J DeLong Twitter Github Personal page Other contributors Contributing View contribution guidlines Support/Discussion Stackoverflow License Commercial license If you want to use Intro.js for a commercial application, theme or plugin the commercial license is the appropriate license. With this option, your source code is kept proprietary. Purchase a commercial license at introjs.com Open-source license GNU AGPLv3