Vega: A Visualization Grammar Vega is a visualization grammar, a declarative format for creating, saving, and sharing interactive visualization designs. With Vega you can describe data visualizations in a JSON format, and generate interactive views using either HTML5 Canvas or SVG. For documentation, tutorials, and examples, see the Vega website. For a description of changes between Vega 2 and later versions, please refer to the Vega Porting Guide. Are you using Vega in a web application built with a bundler such as Webpack or Browserify? If so, and you do not need server-side rendering support, you might prefer using vega-lib to include Vega in your app. The vega-lib repository also houses our general test suite. Build Instructions For a basic setup allowing you to build Vega and run examples: Clone https://github.com/vega/vega. Run yarn to install dependencies. If you dont have yarn installed, see https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install. (If you do not wish to install yarn, you can alternatively run npm install. However, you will not be guaranteed to have dependencies matching those of the current release.) Once installation is complete, use yarn build to build output files. This repository includes the website and documentation in the docs folder. To launch it, run bundle install and bundle exec jekyll serve in the docs folder. The last command launches a local webserver. Now, you can open http://127.0.0.1:4000/vega/ to see the website. Contributions, Development, and Support Interested in contributing to Vega? Please see our contribution and development guidelines, subject to our code of conduct. Looking for support, or interested in sharing examples and tips? Post to the Vega discussion forum or join the Vega slack organization!