Awesome Docker A curated list of Docker resources and projects Inspired by @sindresorhus awesome and improved by these amazing contributors. If you would like to contribute, please read CONTRIBUTING.md first. It contains a lot of tips and guidelines to help keep things organized. Just click README.md to submit a pull request. If this list is not complete, you can contribute to make it so. Here is a great video tutorial to learn how to contribute on Github You can see the updates from TWITTER Please, help organize these resources so that they are easy to find and understand for new comers. See how to Contribute for tips! If you see a link here that is not (any longer) a good fit, you can fix it by submitting a pull request to improve this file. Thank you! The creators and maintainers of this list do not receive any form of payment to accept a change made by any contributor. This page is not an official Docker product in any way. It is a list of links to projects and is maintained by volunteers. Everybody is welcome to contribute. The goal of this repo is to index open-source projects, not to advertise for profit. All the links are monitored and tested with awesome_bot made by @dkhamsing Contents TOC What is Docker Where to start Where to start (Windows) Projects Container Operations Container Composition Deployment and Infrastructure Monitoring Networking Orchestration PaaS Reverse Proxy Security Service Discovery Volume Management / Data User Interface Desktop Terminal Web Docker Images Base Tools Builder Dockerfile Linter Metadata Registry Development with Docker API Client CI/CD Development Environment Garbage Collection Serverless Testing Wrappers Services based on Docker (:heavy_dollar_sign:) CI Services CaaS Monitoring Services Useful Resources Awesome Lists Good Tips Raspberry Pi & ARM Security Videos Communities and Meetups Brazilian Chinese English Russian /TOC Legend Abandoned :skull: Beta :construction: Monetized :heavy_dollar_sign: What is Docker Docker is an open platform for developers and sysadmins to build, ship, and run distributed applications. Consisting of Docker Engine, a portable, lightweight runtime and packaging tool, and Docker Hub, a cloud service for sharing applications and automating workflows, Docker enables apps to be quickly assembled from components and eliminates the friction between development, QA, and production environments. As a result, IT can ship faster and run the same app, unchanged, on laptops, data center VMs, and any cloud. Source: What is Docker Where to start Basics – Docker, Containers, Hypervisors, CoreOS Dive Into Docker: From "What is Docker?" to "Hello World" (60:25) by @nickjanetakis Docker Curriculum: A comprehensive tutorial for getting started with Docker. Teaches how to use Docker and deploy dockerized apps on AWS with Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service. Docker Documentation Docker for all - Developers, Testers, DevOps, Product Owners + Videos Docker Training Videos for all Docker Jumpstart: a quick introduction Docker Toolbox :skull: - Quick setup and launch of a Docker environment on older Mac (10.10 and below) and Windows (8.1 and below) systems. On newer systems its recommended to use the Docker for Mac or Docker for Windows. Docker Training - Includes a free self-paced hands-on tutorial (free registration required or sign-in with DockerHub ID) Katacoda: Learn Docker using Interactive Browser-Based Labs Learn Docker Full environment set up, screenshots, step-by-step tutorial and more resources (video, articles, cheat sheets) by @dwyl Play With Docker - PWD is a great way to get started with Docker from beginner to advanced users. Docker runs directly in your browser. Play With Moby - PWM is a web based Moby playground which allows you to try different components of the platform in seconds. It gives you the experience of having a free Alpine Linux Virtual Machine in the cloud where you can build and run Moby projects and even create clusters to experiment. Practical Introduction to Container Terminology The landscape for container technologies is larger than just docker. Without a good handle on the terminology, It can be difficult to grasp the key differences between docker and (pick your favorites, CRI-O, rkt, lxc/lxd) or understand what the Open Container Initiative is doing to standardize container technology. Cheatsheets by @eon01 @dimonomid (PDF) @JensPiegsa @wsargent Where to start (Windows) A Comparative Study of Docker Engine on Windows Server vs Linux Platform Comparing the feature sets and implementations of Docker on Windows and Linux Build And Run Your First Docker Windows Server Container Walkthrough installing Docker on Windows 10, building a Docker image and running a Windows container Docker on Windows behind a firewall by @kaitoedter Docker Reference Architecture: Modernizing Traditional .NET Framework Applications - You will learn to identify the types of .NET Framework applications that are good candidates for containerization, the "lift-and-shift" approach to containerization. Docker with Microsoft SQL 2016 + ASP.NET Demonstration running ASP.NET and SQL Server workloads in Docker Exploring ASP.NET Core with Docker in both Linux and Windows Containers Running ASP.NET Core apps in Linux and Windows containers, using Docker for Windows Running a Legacy ASP.NET App in a Windows Container Steps for Dockerizing a legacy ASP.NET app and runnning as a Windows container Windows Containers and Docker: The 101 :movie_camera: - A 20-minute overview, using Docker to run PowerShell, ASP.NET Core and ASP.NET apps Windows Containers Quick Start Overview of Windows containers, drilling down to Quick Starts for Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 Projects Moby = open source development Docker CE = free product release based on Moby Docker EE = commercial product release based on Docker CE. Docker EE is on the same code base as Docker CE, so also built from Moby, with commercial components added, such as "docker data center / universal control plane" Moby Docker Images Docker Compose (Define and run multi-container applications with Docker) Docker Machine (Machine management for a container-centric world) Docker Registry (The Docker toolset to pack, ship, store, and deliver content) Docker Swarm (Swarm: a Docker-native clustering system) Container Operations Container Composition bocker (2) - Write Dockerfile completely in Bash. Extensible and simple. --> Reusable by @icy bocker (1) :skull: - Docker implemented in 100 lines of bash by p8952 box - Build Dockerfile images with a mruby DSL, includes flattening and layer manipulation Capitan - Composable docker orchestration with added scripting support by @byrnedo. compose_plantuml - Generate Plantuml graphs from docker-compose files by @funkwerk Composerize - Convert docker run commands into docker-compose files crowdr - Tool for managing multiple Docker containers (docker-compose alternative) by @polonskiy docker-compose-graphviz - Turn a docker-compose.yml files into Graphviz .dot files by @abesto draw-compose - Utility to draw a schema of a docker compose by @Alexis-benoist elsy - An opinionated, multi-language, build tool based on Docker and Docker Compose habitus - A Build Flow Tool for Docker by @cloud66 Maestro :skull: - Maestro provides the ability to easily launch, orchestrate and manage mulitiple Docker containers as single unit by @tascanini percheron :skull: - Organise your Docker containers with muscle and intelligence by @ashmckenzie plash - A container run and build engine - runs inside docker. rocker-compose - Docker composition tool with idempotency features for deploying apps composed of multiple containers. By @grammarly rocker - Extended Dockerfile builder. Supports multiple FROMs, MOUNTS, templates, etc. by grammarly. Stacker - Docker Compose Templates. Stacker provides an abstraction layer over Docker Compose and a better DX (developer experience). Zodiac :skull: - A lightweight tool for easy deployment and rollback of dockerized applications. By @CenturyLinkLabs Deployment and Infrastructure blackfish - a CoreOS VM to build swarm clusters for Dev & Production by @DataMC Centurion - Centurion is a mass deployment tool for Docker fleets. It takes containers from a Docker registry and runs them on a fleet of hosts with the correct environment variables, host volume mappings, and port mappings. By @newrelic Clocker - Clocker creates and manages a Docker cloud infrastructure. Clocker supports single-click deployments and runtime management of multi-node applications that run as containers distributed across multiple hosts, on both Docker and Marathon. It leverages Calico and Weave for networking and Brooklyn for application blueprints. By @brooklyncentral Conduit - Experimental deployment system for Docker by @ehazlett depcon - Depcon is written in Go and allows you to easily deploy Docker containers to Apache Mesos/Marathon, Amazon ECS and Kubernetes. By @ContainX deploy :skull: - Git and Docker deployment tool. A middle ground between simple Docker composition tools and full blown cluster orchestration by @ttiny dockit :skull: - Do docker actions and Deploy gluster containers! By @humblec gitkube - Gitkube is a tool for building and deploying docker images on Kubernetes using git push. By @Hasura. Grafeas - A common API for metadata about containers, from image and build details to security vulnerabilities. By Grafeas Longshoreman :skull: - Longshoreman automates application deployment using Docker. Just create a Docker repository (or use a service), configure the cluster using AWS or Digital Ocean (or whatever you like) and deploy applications using a Heroku-like CLI tool. By longshoreman Monitoring Axibase Collector - Axibase Collector streams performance counters, configuration changes and lifecycle events from the Docker engine(s) into Axibase Time Series Database for roll-up dashboards and integration with upstream monitoring systems. cAdvisor - Analyzes resource usage and performance characteristics of running containers. Created by @Google Docker-Alertd - Monitor and send alerts based on docker container resource usage/statistics Docker-Flow-Monitor - Reconfigures Prometheus when a new service is updated or deployed automatically by @vfarcic Docker-Fluentd - Docker container to Log Other Containers Logs. One can aggregate the logs of Docker containers running on the same host using Fluentd by @kiyoto Dockerana :skull: - packaged version of Graphite and Grafana, specifically targeted at metrics from Docker. Dynatrace :heavy_dollar_sign: - Monitor containerized applications without installing agents or modifying your Run commands Glances - A cross-platform curses-based system monitoring tool written in Python by @nicolargo Grafana Docker Dashboard Template - A template for your Docker, Grafana and Prometheus stack @vegasbrianc InfluxDB, cAdvisor, Grafana - InfluxDB Time series DB in combination with Grafana and cAdvisor by @vegasbrianc LogJam - Logjam is a log forwarder designed to listen on a local port, receive log entries over UDP, and forward these messages on to a log collection server (such as logstash) by @gocardless Logsene for Docker Monitoring of Metrics, Events and Logs implemented in Node.js. Integrated logagent-js to detect and parse various log formats. @sematext Logspout - Log routing for Docker container logs by @gliderlabs Out-of-the-box Host/Container Monitoring/Logging/Alerting Stack - Docker host and container monitoring, logging and alerting out of the box using cAdvisor, Prometheus, Grafana for monitoring, Elasticsearch, Kibana and Logstash for logging and elastalert and Alertmanager for alerting. Set up in 5 Minutes. Secure mode for production use with built-in Automated Nginx Reverse Proxy (jwilders). Zabbix Docker module - Zabbix module that provides discovery of running containers, CPU/memory/blk IO/net container metrics. Systemd Docker and LXC execution driver is also supported. Its a dynamically linked shared object library, so its performance is (~10x) better, than any script solution. Zabbix Docker - Monitor containers automatically using zabbix LLD feature. Networking Calico-Docker - Calico is a pure layer 3 virtual network that allows containers over multiple docker-hosts to talk to each other. Flannel - Flannel is a virtual network that gives a subnet to each host for use with container runtimes. By @coreos netshoot - The netshoot container has a powerful set of networking tools to help troubleshoot Docker networking issues by @nicolaka Weave (The Docker network) - Weave creates a virtual network that connects Docker containers deployed across multiple hosts. Orchestration athena - An automation platform with a plugin architecture that allows you to easily create and share services. blimp :skull: - Uses Docker Machine to easily move a container from one Docker host to another, show containers running against all of your hosts, replicate a container across multiple hosts and more by @defermat and @schvin CloudSlang - CloudSlang is a workflow engine to create Docker process automation clusterdock - Docker container orchestration to enable the testing of long-running cluster deployments ContainerShip A simple container management platform Crane - Control plane based on docker built-in swarm @Dataman-Cloud Docker Flow Swarm Listener - Docker Flow Swarm Listener project is to listen to Docker Swarm events and send requests when a change occurs. By @vfarcic gantryd :skull: - A framework for easy management of docker-based components across machines by @DevTable Haven - Haven is a simplified container management platform that integrates container, application, cluster, image, and registry managements. By @codeabovelab Helios - A simple platform for deploying and managing containers across an entire fleet of servers by @spotify Kontena - Application Containers for Masses website Kubernetes - Open source orchestration system for Docker containers by Google ManageIQ - Discover, optimize and control your hybrid IT. By ManageIQ Mantl - Mantl is a modern platform for rapidly deploying globally distributed services Marathon - Marathon is a private PaaS built on Mesos. It automatically handles hardware or software failures and ensures that an app is "always on" Mesos - Resource/Job scheduler for containers, VMs and physical hosts @apache Mesosphere DC/OS :heavy_dollar_sign: - Integrated platform for data and containers built on Apache Mesos by @mesosphere Nebula - A Docker orchestration tool designed to manage massive scale distributed clusters. Nomad - Easily deploy applications at any scale. A Distributed, Highly Available, Datacenter-Aware Scheduler by @hashicorp Panamax :skull: - An open-source project that makes deploying complex containerized apps as easy as Drag-and-Drop by @CenturyLinkLabs. Rancher - An open source project that provides a complete platform for operating Docker in production by @rancher. Swarmpit - Lightweight Docker Swarm orchestration. Swarmpit provides clean way to manage your Docker Swarm cluster with various handful features such Service management, smart search, shared access and private registries. PaaS Atlantis :skull: - Atlantis is an Open Source PaaS for HTTP applications built on Docker and written in Go CaptainDuckDuck - Open source Heroku-like platform with a one-liner installer and a GUI for managing apps - with serveral one-click databases and apps. Convox Rack - Convox Rack is open source PaaS built on top of expert infrastructure automation and devops best practices. Dcw - Docker-compose SSH wrapper: a very poor man PaaS, exposing the docker-compose and custom-container commands defined in container labels. Dokku - Docker powered mini-Heroku that helps you build and manage the lifecycle of applications (originally by @progrium) Empire - A PaaS built on top of Amazon EC2 Container Service (ECS) Flynn - A next generation open source platform as a service Jelastic :heavy_dollar_sign: - An advanced PaaS for developers that simplifies clustering and complex cloud deployments with powerful web UI and usage-only pricing Nanobox :heavy_dollar_sign: - An application development platform that creates local environments that can then be deployed and scaled in the cloud. OpenShift - An open source PaaS built on Kubernetes and optimized for Dockerized app development and deployment by Red Hat Tsuru - Tsuru is an extensible and open source Platform as a Service software Workflow - The open source PaaS for Kubernetes by Deis. Formerly Deis v1. ZEIT Now - A universal serverless single-command deploy for Node.js applications or any application with a Dockerfile. Reverse Proxy docker-flow-proxy - Reconfigures proxy every time a new service is deployed, or when a service is scaled. By @vfarcic docker-proxy :skull: - Transparent proxy for docker containers, run in a docker container. By @silarsis fabio - A fast, modern, zero-conf load balancing HTTP(S) router for deploying microservices managed by consul. By @magiconair (Frank Schroeder) h2o-proxy :skull: - Automated H2O reverse proxy for Docker containers. An alternative to jwilder/nginx-proxy by @zchee Lets Encrypt Nginx-proxy Companion - A lightweight companion container for the nginx-proxy. It allow the creation/renewal of Lets Encrypt certificates automatically. By @JrCs muguet - DNS Server & Reverse proxy for Docker environments. By @mattallty nginx-proxy - Automated nginx proxy for Docker containers using docker-gen by @jwilder Swarm Ingress Router - Route DNS names to Swarm services based on labels. By @tpbowden Swarm Router - A «zero config» service name based router for docker swarm mode with a fresh and more secure approach. By @flavioaiello Træfɪk - Automated reverse proxy and load-balancer for Docker, Mesos, Consul, Etcd... By @EmileVauge Security Anchor Cloud :heavy_dollar_sign: - Hosted version of Anchor Engine by @Anchor Anchor Engine - Analyze images for CVE vulnerabilities and against custom security policies by @Anchor Aqua Security :heavy_dollar_sign: - Securing container-based applications from Dev to Production on any platform bane - AppArmor profile generator for Docker containers by @genuinetools CIS Docker Benchmark - This InSpec compliance profile implement the CIS Docker 1.12.0 Benchmark in an automated way to provide security best-practice tests around Docker daemon and containers in a production environment. By @dev-sec Clair - Clair is an open source project for the static analysis of vulnerabilities in appc and docker containers. By @coreos Dagda - Dagda is a tool to perform static analysis of known vulnerabilities, trojans, viruses, malware & other malicious threats in docker images/containers and to monitor the docker daemon and running docker containers for detecting anomalous activities. By @eliasgranderubio docker-bench-security - script that checks for dozens of common best-practices around deploying Docker containers in production. By @docker docker-explorer - A tool to help forensicate offline docker acquisitions by @Google notary - a server and a client for running and interacting with trusted collections. By @TUF oscap-docker - OpenSCAP provides oscap-docker tool which is used to scan Docker containers and images. By RedHat Sysdig Falco - Sysdig Falco is an open source container security monitor. It can monitor application, container, host, and network activity and alert on unauthorized activity. Sysdig Secure :heavy_dollar_sign: - Sysdig Secure addresses run-time security through behavioral monitoring and defense, and provides deep forensics based on open source Sysdig for incident response. Twistlock :heavy_dollar_sign: - Twistlock Security Suite detects vulnerabilities, hardens container images, and enforces security policies across the lifecycle of applications. Service Discovery Docker Grand Ambassador :skull: - This is a fully dynamic docker link ambassador. + Article by @cpuguy83 docker-consul by @progrium etcd - A highly-available key value store for shared configuration and service discovery by @coreOS istio - An open platform to connect, manage, and secure microservices by @IstioMesh proxy :skull: - lightweight nginx based load balancer self using service discovery provided by registrator. by @factorish registrator - Service registry bridge for Docker by @gliderlabs and @progrium Volume Management / Data Blockbridge - The Blockbridge plugin is a volume plugin that provides access to an extensible set of container-based persistent storage options. It supports single and multi-host Docker environments with features that include tenant isolation, automated provisioning, encryption, secure deletion, snapshots and QoS. By @blockbridge Convoy - an open-source Docker volume driver that can snapshot, backup and restore Docker volumes anywhere. By @rancher Docker Machine NFS Activates NFS for an existing boot2docker box created through Docker Machine on OS X. Docker Unison A docker volume container using Unison for fast two-way folder sync. Created as an alternative to slow boot2docker volumes on OS X. By @leighmcculloch Local Persist Specify a mountpoint for your local volumes (created via docker volume create) so that files will always persist and so you can mount to different directories in different containers. Minio - S3 compatible object storage server in Docker containers Netshare Docker NFS, AWS EFS, Ceph & Samba/CIFS Volume Plugin. By @ContainX portworx :heavy_dollar_sign: - Decentralized storage solution for persistent, shared and replicated volumes. quobyte :heavy_dollar_sign: - fully fault-tolerant distributed file system with a docker volume driver REX-Ray provides a vendor agnostic storage orchestration engine. The primary design goal is to provide persistent storage for Docker, Kubernetes, and Mesos. By@thecodeteam (DELL Technologies) User Interface Desktop Native desktop applications for managing and montoring docker hosts and clusters Captain - Manage containers from the MacOSX menu bar by @RickWong Dockeron - A project built on Electron + Vue.js for Docker on desktop. @fluency03 DockStation - A developer centric UI to configure, monitor, and manage services and containers @dock_station Lifeboat - An easy way to launch Docker projects with a graphical interface on your Mac. @jplhomer Terminal captain - Easily start and stop docker compose projects from any directory. By @jenssegers ctop (1) - A command line / text based Linux Containers monitoring tool that works just like you expect (Python) by @yadutaf ctop (2) - Top-like interface for container metrics (Golang) by @bcicen dext-docker-registry-plugin - Search the Docker Registry with the Dext smart launcher. docker-ls - CLI tools for browsing and manipulating docker registries by @mayflower Docker-mon :skull: - Console-based Docker monitoring by @icecrime docker.el Manage docker from Emacs by Silex dockercraft - Docker + Minecraft = Dockercraft by @docker dockerfile-mode An emacs mode for handling Dockerfiles by spotify dockersql - A command line interface to query Docker using SQL by @crosbymichael dockly - An interactive shell UI for managing Docker containers by @lirantal dry - An interactive CLI for Docker containers by @moncho DVM - Docker version manager by @howtowhale MultiDocker - Create a secure multi-user Docker machine, where each user is segregated into an indepentent container. ns-enter - no more ssh, enter name spaces of container by @jpetazzo Powerline-Docker - A Powerline segment for showing the status of Docker containers by @adrianmo proco - Proco will help you to organise and manage Docker, Docker-Compose, Kubernetes projects of any complexity using simple YAML config files to shorten the route from finding your project to initialising it in your local environment. by @shiwaforce reg - Docker registry v2 command line client by @genuinetools scuba - Transparently use Docker containers to encapsulate software build environments, by @JonathonReinhart sen - Terminal user interface for docker engine, by @TomasTomecek supdock - :construction: Allows for slightly more visual usage of Docker with an interactive prompt by @segersniels tsaotun - Python based Assistance for Docker by @qazbnm456 wharfee - Autocompletion and syntax highlighting for Docker commands. by @j-bennet Web Docker Registry Browser - Web Interface for the Docker Registry HTTP API v2 by @klausmeyer Docker Registry UI - A web UI for easy private/local Docker Registry integration by @squidnyan docker-registry-web - Web UI, authentication service and event recorder for private docker registry v2 by @mkuchin docker-swarm-visualizer - Visualizes Docker services on a Docker Swarm (for running demos). dockering-on-rails :skull: - Simple Web-Interface for Docker with a lot of features by @Electrofenster DockerSurfer :construction: - A web service for analyze and browse dependencies between Docker images in the Docker registry, by @Simone-Erba NexClipper - Simple web UI for container monitoring by @Nexcloud OctoLinker - A browser extension for GitHub that makes the image name in a Dockerfile clickable and redirect you to the related Docker Hub page. Portainer - A lightweight management UI for managing your Docker hosts or Docker Swarm clusters by @portainer Portus - Authorization service and frontend for Docker registry (v2) by @SUSE Rapid Dashboard - A simple query dashboard to use Docker Remote API by @ozlerhakan Seagull - Friendly Web UI to monitor docker daemon. by @tobegit3hub Swirl - Swirl is a web management tool for Docker, focused on swarm cluster By @cuigh Docker Images Base Tools Tools and applications that are either installed inside containers or designed to be run as a sidecar amicontained - Container introspection tool. Find out what container runtime is being used as well as features available by @genuinetools autodock - Daemon for Docker Automation by @prologic Chaperone - A single PID1 process designed for docker containers. Does user management, log management, startup, zombie reaping, all in one small package. by @garywiz CoreOS - Linux for Massive Server Deployments docker-alpine - A super small Docker base image (5MB) using Alpine Linux by @gliderlabs docker-gen - Generate files from docker container meta-data by @jwilder dockerize - Utility to simplify running applications in docker containers by @jwilder GoSu - Run this specific application as this specific user and get out of the pipeline (entrypoint script tool) by @tianon is-docker - Check if the process is running inside a Docker container by @sindresorhus lstags - sync Docker images across registries by @ivanilves NVIDIA-Docker - The NVIDIA Container Runtime for Docker by @NVIDIA su-exec - This is a simple tool that will simply execute a program with different privileges. The program will be excuted directly and not run as a child, like su and sudo does, which avoids TTY and signal issues. Why reinvent gosu? This does more or less exactly the same thing as gosu but it is only 10kb instead of 1.8MB. By ncopa supercronic - crontab-compatible job runner, designed specifically to run in containers by @aptible TrivialRC - A minimalistic Runtime Configuration system and process manager for containers @vorakl Builder Applications designed to help or simplify building new images buildah - A tool that facilitates building OCI images by @projectAtomic container-diff - An image tool for comparing and analzying container images by @GoogleContainerTools container-factory - Produces Docker images from tarballs of application source code by @mutable copy-docker-image - Copy a Docker image between registries without a full Docker installation by @mdlavin Derrick - A tool help you to automate the generation of Dockerfile and dockerize application by scanning the code. By @alibaba. dlayer - Stats collector for Docker layers by @wercker docker-companion - A command line tool written in Golang to squash and unpack docker images by @mudler docker-make - Build, tag,and push a bunch of related docker images via a single command. docker-replay - Generate docker runcommand and options from running containers. By bcicen DockerSlim shrinks fat Docker images creating the smallest possible images. Dockly - Dockly is a gem made to ease the pain of packaging an application in Docker by @swipely dockramp :skull: - Proof of Concept: A Client Driven Docker Image Builder by @jlhawn flyimg - Docker image resizing, cropping, and compression on the fly. img - Standalone, daemon-less, unprivileged Dockerfile and OCI compatible container image builder by @genuinetools kaniko - Build Container Images In Kubernetes. By @GoogleContainerTools MicroBadger - Analyze the contents of images and add metadata labels packer - Hashicorp tool to build machine images including docker image integrated with configuration management tools like chef, puppet, ansible portainer - Apache Mesos framework for building Docker images by @duedil-ltd runlike 🚧 - Generate docker runcommand and options from running containers by @lavie SkinnyWhale :skull: - Skinnywhale helps you make smaller (as in megabytes) Docker containers. Whaler - Program to reverse Docker images into Dockerfiles by @P3GLEG. Whales - A tool to automatically dockerize your applications by @icalialabs. Dockerfile chaperone-docker - A set of images using the Chaperone process manager, including a lean Alpine image, LAMP, LEMP, and bare-bones base kits. Dockerfile Generator Dockerfile Project : Trusted Automated Docker Builds. Dockerfile Project maintains a central repository of Dockerfile for various popular open source software services runnable on a Docker container. Vektorcloud - A collection of minimal, Alpine-based Docker images Examples by: @arun-gupta @awesome-startup @crosbymichael @jessfraz @komljen @kstaken @ondrejmo @pandrew @vimagick Linter dockerfile_lint - A rule-based linter for Dockerfiles by @projectatomic Dockerfilelint - A node module that analyzes a Dockerfile and looks for common traps, mistakes and helps enforce best practices by @replicatedhq dockfmt :construction: - Dockerfile formatter and parser by @jessfraz Hadolint - A Dockerfile linter that checks for best practices, common mistakes, and is also able to lint any bash written in RUN instructions; by @lukasmartinelli Whale-linter - A simple and small Dockerfile linter written in Python3+ without dependencies by @jeromepin Metadata opencontainer - A convention and shared namespace for Docker labels defined by OCI Image Spec. Registry Services to securely store your Docker images. Amazon EC2 Container Registry :heavy_dollar_sign: - Amazon EC2 Container Registry (ECR) is a fully-managed Docker container registry that makes it easy for developers to store, manage, and deploy Docker container images. Azure Container Registry :heavy_dollar_sign: - Manage a Docker private registry as a first-class Azure resource CargoOS - A bare essential OS for running the Docker Engine on bare metal or Cloud. By @RedCoolBeans Cycle.io :heavy_dollar_sign: - Bare-metal container hosting. cleanreg - A small tool to delete image manifests from a Docker Registry implementing the API v2, dereferencing them for the GC by @hcguersoy Docker Hub provided by Docker Inc. Docker Registry v2 - The Docker toolset to pack, ship, store, and deliver content Docket - Custom docker registry that allows for lightning fast deploys through bittorrent by @netvarun Europa :heavy_dollar_sign: - Private docker registry with support for image pipelines and webhooks. By @puppetlabs GCE Container Registry :heavy_dollar_sign: Fast, private Docker image storage on Google Cloud Platform GitLab Container Registry - Repositories focused on using it images in GitLab CI JFrog Artifactory :heavy_dollar_sign: - Artifact Repository Manager, can be used as private Docker Registry as well Private Docker Registry :heavy_dollar_sign: - Dedicated Conainer Registry Service with unlimited private repositories, users, teams, namespaces together with enterprise grade authentication LDAP/AD/OAuth/SAML. Quay.io :heavy_dollar_sign: (part of CoreOS) - Secure hosting for private Docker repositories Rescoyl - Private Docker registry (free and open source) by @noteed Sonatype Nexus - Repository with Universal Support, also for Docker images TreeScale - Build and Distribute container based applications. By @tigranbs VMWare Harbor Project Harbor by VMWare is an enterprise-class registry server that stores and distributes Docker images. Harbor extends the open source Docker Distribution by adding the functionalities usually required by an enterprise, such as security, identity and management. Development with Docker API Client ahab - Docker event handling with Python by @instacart Docker Client for JVM - A Docker remote api client library for the JVM, written in Groovy by @gesellix Docker Client TypeScript - Docker API client for JavaScript, automatically generated from Swagger API definition from moby repository. By @masaeedu docker-it-scala - Docker integration testing kit with Scala by @whisklabs docker-maven-plugin - A Maven plugin for running and creating Docker images by @fabric8io Docker-PowerShell - PowerShell Module for Docker Docker.DotNet - C#/.NET HTTP client for the Docker remote API by @ahmetalpbalkan dockerfile-maven - A Maven plugin for building and pushing Docker images by @spotify dockerode - Docker Remote API node.js module by @apocas DoMonit - A simple Docker Monitoring wrapper For Docker API go-dockerclient - Go HTTP client for the Docker remote API by @fsouza Gradle Docker plugin - A Docker remote api plugin for Gradle by @gesellix libcompose - Go library for Docker Compose. sbt-docker-compose - Integrates Docker Compose functionality into sbt by @kurtkopchik sbt-docker - Create Docker images directly from sbt by @marcuslonnberg CI/CD Buddy :heavy_dollar_sign: - The best of Git, build & deployment tools combined into one powerful tool that supercharged our development. Captain - Convert your Git workflow to Docker containers ready for Continuous Delivery by @harbur. Cyclone - A cloud native CI/CD platform built for container workflow by @caicloud. Docker plugin for Jenkins - The aim of the docker plugin is to be able to use a docker host to dynamically provision a slave, run a single build, then tear-down that slave. Drone - Continuous integration server built on Docker and configured using YAML files. GitLab CI - GitLab has integrated CI to test, build and deploy your code with the use of GitLab runners. GOCD-DockerGo Server and Agent in docker containers to provision. Microservices Continuous Deployment - Continuous deployment of a microservices application. mu - Tool to configure CI/CD of your container applications via AWS CodePipeline, CodeBuild and ECS @Stelligent Screwdriver :heavy_dollar_sign: - Yahoos OpenSource buildplatform designed for Continous Delivery. Skipper - Easily dockerize your Git repository by @Stratoscale SwarmCI - Create a distributed, isolated task pipeline in your Docker Swarm. Watchtower - Automatically update running Docker containers by @CenturyLinkLabs Development Environment Binci - Containerize your development workflow. (formerly DevLab by @TechnologyAdvice) Boot2Docker - Docker for OSX and Windows construi - Run your builds inside a Docker defined environment by @lstephen Devstep :skull: - Development environments powered by Docker and buildpacks by @fgrehm Dinghy - An alternative way to use Docker on Mac OS X using Docker Machine with virtualbox, vmware, xhyve or parallels DLite - Simplest way to use Docker on OSX, no VM needed. By @nlf dobi - A build automation tool for Docker applications. By @dnephin Docker Missing Tools - A set of bash commands to shortcut typical docker dev-ops. An alternative to creating typical helper scripts like "build.sh" and "deploy.sh" inside code repositories. By @NandoQuintana. Docker osx dev - A productive development environment with Docker on OS X by @brikis98 Docker-Arch - Generate Web/CLI projects Dockerized development environments, from 1 simple YAML file. By @Ph3nol Docker-sync - Drastically improves performance (50-70x) when using Docker for development on Mac OS X/Windows and Linux while sharing code to the container. By @EugenMayer docker-vm - Simple and transparent alternative to boot2docker (backed by Vagrant) by @shyiko Dusty - Managed Docker development environments on OS X Eclipse Che - Developer workspace server with Docker runtimes, cloud IDE, next-generation Eclipse IDE EnvCLI - Replace your local installation of Node, Go, ... with project-specific docker containers. By @PhilippHeuer forward2docker :skull: - Utility to auto forward a port from localhost into ports on Docker containers running in a boot2docker VM by @bsideup Lando - Lando is for developers who want to quickly specify and painlessly spin up the services and tools needed to develop their projects. By Tandem Vagga - Vagga is a containerisation tool without daemons. It is a fully-userspace container engine inspired by Vagrant and Docker, specialized for development environments by @tailhook Garbage Collection caduc - A docker garbage collector cleaning stuff you did not use recently Docker Clean - A script that cleans Docker containers, images and volumes by @zzrotdesign Docker-cleanup - Automatic Docker image, container and volume cleanup by @meltwater docker-custodian - Keep docker hosts tidy. By @Yelp docker-garby - Docker garbage collection script by @konstruktoid. docker-gc - A cron job that will delete old stopped containers and unused images by @spotify sherdock :skull: - Automatic GC of images based on regexp by @rancher Serverless AMP - The open source unified CaaS/FaaS platform for Docker, batteries included. By @Appcelerator Apache OpenWhisk - a serverless, open source cloud platform that executes functions in response to events at any scale. By @apache Docker-Lambda - Docker images and test runners that replicate the live AWS Lambda environment. By @lamb-ci Funker - Functions as Docker containers example voting app. By @bfirsh IronFunctions - The serverless microservices platform FaaS (Funcitons as a Service) which uses Docker containers to run Any language or AWS Lambda functions OpenFaaS - A complete serverless functions framework for Docker and Kubernetes. By OpenFaaS SCAR - Serverless Container-aware Architectures (SCAR) is a serverless framework that allows easy deployment and execution of containers (e.g. Docker) in Serverless environments (e.g. Lambda) by @grycap Testing Container Structure Test - A framework to validate the structure of an image by checking the outputs of commands or the contents of the filesystem. By @GoogleContainerTools dgoss - A fast YAML based tool for validating docker containers. DockerSpec - A small Ruby Gem to run RSpec and Serverspec, Infrataster and Capybara tests against Dockerfiles or Docker images easily. By @zuazo Dockunit :skull: - Docker based integration tests. A simple Node based utility for running Docker based unit tests. By @dockunit InSpec - InSpec is an open-source testing framework for infrastructure with a human- and machine-readable language for specifying compliance, security and policy requirements. By @chef Pumba - Chaos testing tool for Docker. Can be deployed on kubernetes and CoreOS cluster. By @alexei-led Wrappers Ansible - Manage the life cycle of Docker containers. By RedHat Azk - Orchestrate development enviornments on your local machine by @azukiapp Beluga :skull: - CLI to deploy docker containers on a single server or low amount of servers. By @cortextmedia dexec - Command line interface written in Go for running code with Docker Exec images. docker-do - hassle-free docker run, like env but for docker by @benzaita Dray - An engine for managing the execution of container-based workflows by @CenturyLinkLabs FuGu - Docker run wrapper without orchestration by @mattes SaltStack Docker module - SaltStack Docker module Shutit - Tool for building and maintaining complex Docker deployments by @ianmiell subuser - Makes it easy to securely and portably run graphical desktop applications in Docker Turbo - Simple and Powerful utility for docker. By @ramitsurana udocker - A tool to execute simple docker containers in batch or interactive systems without root privileges by @inidigo-dc Vagrant - Docker provider - Good starting point is vagrant-docker-example by @bubenkoff Services based on Docker (:heavy_dollar_sign:) CI Services CircleCI - Push or pull Docker images from your build environment, or build and run containers right on CircleCI. CodeFresh - Everything you need to build, test, and share your Docker applications. Provides automated end to end testing. CodeShip - Work with your established Docker workflows while automating your testing and deployment tasks with our hosted platform dedicated to speed and security. ConcourseCI - A CI SaaS platform for developers and DevOps teams pipeline oriented. IBM Bluemix Continous Delivery - Continuous delivery using a pipeline deployment onto IBM containers on Bluemix. Semaphore CI — A high-performance cloud solution that makes it easy to build, test and ship your containers to production. Shippable - A SaaS platform for developers and DevOps teams that significantly reduces the time taken for code to be built, tested and deployed to production. TravisCI - A Free github projects continuous integration Saas platform for developers and Devops. Wercker - A Docker-Native continous integration & deployment Automation platform for Kubernetes & Microservice Deployments. CaaS Amazon ECS - A management service on EC2 that supports Docker containers. Arukas - Heroku-inspired CaaS Azure AKS - Simplify Kubernetes management, deployment, and operations. Use a fully managed Kubernetes container orchestration service. Cloud 66 - Full-stack hosted container management as a service Codenvy - One-click Docker environments and cloud workspace for development teams ContainerShip Cloud - Multi-Cloud Container Hosting Automation Platform. Docker Cloud - Former Tutum Dockhero - Dockhero is a Heroku add-on which turns a Docker image into a microservice attached to the Heroku app. Currently in beta. Giant Swarm - Simple microservice infrastructure. Deploy your containers in seconds. Google Container Engine - Docker containers on Google Cloud Computing powered by Kubernetes. Hyper_ - Secure container hosting service with "nano-containers" and per-second billing. IBM Bluemix Container Service - Run Docker containers in a hosted cloud environment on IBM Bluemix. Jelastic Cloud - "Easy-to-use" container hosting platfrom with automatic vertical and horizontal scaling. Available over 50+ hosting providers worldwide. OpenShift Dedicated - A hosted OpenShift cluster for running your Docker containers managed by Red Hat. Sloppy.io - all-in-one solution for container deployment and hosting – made and hosted in Germany Triton - Elastic container-native infrastructure by Joyent. Monitoring Services AppDynamics - AppDynamics gives enterprises real-time insights into application performance, user performance, and business performance so they can move faster in an increasingly sophisticated, software-driven world. Axibase Time-Series Database - Long-term retention of container statistics and built-in dashboards for Docker. Collected with native Google cAdvisor storage driver. CA Technologies Docker Monitoring - Agile Operations solutions from CA deliver the modern Docker monitoring businesses need to accelerate and optimize the performance of microservices and the dynamic Docker environments running them. Monitor both the Docker environment and apps that run inside them. Collecting docker logs and stats with Splunk CoScale - Full stack monitoring for containerized applications and microservices. Powered by anomaly detection to find performance problems faster. Datadog - Datadog is a full-stack monitoring service for large-scale cloud environments that aggregates metrics/events from servers, databases, and applications. It includes support for Docker, Kubernetes, and Mesos. Meros - Analyzes containers resources, captures logs, remote web SSH terminal and powerful DevOps alerts. Prometheus - Open-source service monitoring system and time series database Site24x7 - Docker Monitoring for DevOps and IT is a SaaS Pay per Host model SPM for Docker - Monitoring of host and container metrics, Docker events and logs. Automatic log parser. Anomaly Detection and alerting for metrics and logs. @sematext Sysdig Monitor - Sysdig Monitor can be used as either software or a SaaS service to monitor, alert, and troubleshoot containers using system calls. It has container-specific features for Docker and Kubernetes. Useful Resources Valuable Docker Links High quality articles about docker! MUST SEE Cloud Native Landscape Docker Weekly Huge resource Programming Community Curated Resources for learning Docker Blogs by @codeship @crosbymichael @gliderlabs @jessfraz @jpetazzo @jwilder @nickjanetakis @progrium @sebgoa Container solutions Container42 Awesome Lists Awesome CI/CD - Not specific to docker but relevant. Awesome Kubernetes by @ramitsurana Awesome Linux Container more general about container than this repo, by @Friz-zy. Awesome Selfhosted list of Free Software network services and web applications which can be hosted locally by running in a classical way (setup local web server and run applications from there) or in a Docker container. By @Kickball Awesome Sysadmin by @n1trux ToolsOfTheTrade a list of SaaS and On premise applications by @cjbarber Good Tips Dealing with linked containers dependency in docker-compose by @rochacbruno Docker Caveats What You Should Know About Running Docker In Production (written 11 APRIL 2016) MUST SEE Docker Containers on the Desktop - The funniest way to learn about docker by @jessfraz who also gave a presentation about it @ DockerCon 2015 Docker vs. VMs? Combining Both for Cloud Portability Nirvana Dont Repeat Yourself with Anchors, Aliases and Extensions in Docker Compose Files by @King Chung Huang GUI Apps with Docker by @fgrehm Raspberry Pi & ARM Docker Pirates ARMed with explosive stuff Huge resource on clustering, swarm, docker, pre-installed image for SD card on Raspberry Pi Get Docker up and running on the RaspberryPi in three steps git push docker containers to linux devices Modern DevOps for IoT, leveraging git and Docker. Installing, running, using Docker on armhf (ARMv7) devices Security Bringing new security features to Docker CVE Scanning Alpine images with Multi-stage builds in Docker 17.05 by @tomwillfixit Docker and SELinux Docker Secure Deployment Guidelines Docker Securitiy - Quick Reference Docker Security Cheat Sheet Docker Security: Are Your Containers Tightly Secured to the Ship? SlideShare How CVEs are handled on Offical Docker Images Improving Docker Security with Authenticated Volumes Lynis is an open source security auditing tool including Docker auditing Security Best Practices for Building Docker Images Software Engineering Radio interview of Docker Security Team Lead (Diogo Mónica) Tuning Docker with the newest security enhancements Understanding Docker security and best practices (written 5 MAY 2015) Videos Contributing to Docker by Andrew "Tianon" Page (InfoSiftr) (34:31) Deploying and scaling applications with Docker, Swarm, and a tiny bit of Python magic (3:11:06) by @jpetazzo Docker and SELinux by Daniel Walsh from Red Hat (40:23) Docker for Developers (54:26) by @jpetazzo <== Good introduction, context, demo Docker in Production by @jpetazzo (36:05) Docker: How to Use Your Own Private Registry (15:01) Extending Docker with Plugins (15:21) From Local Docker Development to Production Deployments by @jpetazzo @ AWS re:Invent 2015 Immutable Infrastructure with Docker and EC2 by Michael Bryzek (Gilt) (42:04) Introduction to Docker and containers (3:09:00) by @jpetazzo Logging on Docker: What You Need to Know (51:27) Performance Analysis of Docker - Jeremy Eder (1:36:58) Scalable Microservices with Kubernetes Free Udacity course State of containers: a debate with CoreOS, VMware and Google (27:38) SysAdminCasts: Introduction to Docker (15:49) Communities and Meetups Brazilian Docker BR on Slack - Auto invite url Docker BR on Telegram Chinese DockerOne Docker Community (in Chinese) by @LiYingJie English Docker Community Docker Events Docker On Line Meetup Docker Reddit Community Russian Docker Russian-speaking Community