A command-line tool that reorganizes your Xcode project folder to match your Xcode groups. Xcode Finder Installation $ gem install synx Usage Basic :warning: WARNING: Make sure that your project is backed up through source control before doing anything :warning: Execute the command on your project to have it reorganize the files on the file system: $ synx path/to/my/project.xcodeproj It may have confused CocoaPods. If you use them, execute this command: $ pod install Youre good to go! Advanced Synx supports the following options: --prune, -p remove source files and image resources that are not referenced by the the Xcode project --no-color removes all color from the output --no-default-exclusions doesnt use the default exclusions of /Libraries, /Frameworks, and /Products --no-sort-by-name disable sorting groups by name --quiet, -q silence all output --exclusion, -e EXCLUSION ignore an Xcode group while syncing For example, OCMock could have been organized using this command: $ synx -p -e "/OCMock/Core Mocks" -e /OCMockTests Source/OCMock.xcodeproj/ if they had wanted not to sync the /OCMock/Core Mocks and /OCMockTests groups, and also remove (-p) any image/source files found by synx that werent referenced by any groups in Xcode. Contributing Wed love to see your ideas for improving this library! The best way to contribute is by submitting a pull request. Well do our best to respond to your patch as soon as possible. You can also submit a new Github issue if you find bugs or have questions. :octocat: Please make sure to follow our general coding style and add test coverage for new features! Contributors @vrjbndr, awesome logo! @ayanonagon and @benzguo, feedback.