VerbalExpressions v0.3.0 JavaScript Regular Expressions made easy VerbalExpressions is a JavaScript library that helps to construct difficult regular expressions. How to get started In the browser HTML <script src="VerbalExpressions.js"></script> Or use the jsDelivr CDN. On the server (node.js) Install: npm install verbal-expressions Require: javascript var VerEx = require(verbal-expressions); Running tests $ npm run grunt (or) $ npm test Creating a minified version This will generate a minified version of VerbalExpressions.js (aptly named VerbalExpressions.min.js) in a dist folder. $ npm run build A source map will also be created in the same folder, so you can use the original unminified source file (copied to dist as well) for debugging purposes. Examples Heres a couple of simple examples to give an idea of how VerbalExpressions works: Testing if we have a valid URL ```javascript // Create an example of how to test for correctly formed URLs var tester = VerEx() .startOfLine() .then(http) .maybe(s) .then(://) .maybe(www.) .anythingBut( ) .endOfLine(); // Create an example URL var testMe = https://www.google.com; // Use RegExp objects native test() function if (tester.test(testMe)) { alert(We have a correct URL); // This output will fire } else { alert(The URL is incorrect); } console.log(tester); // Outputs the actual expression used: /^(http)(s)?(\:\/\/)(www.)?([^\ ]*)$/ ``` Replacing strings ```javascript // Create a test string var replaceMe = Replace bird with a duck; // Create an expression that seeks for word "bird" var expression = VerEx().find(bird); // Execute the expression like a normal RegExp object var result = expression.replace(replaceMe, duck); // Outputs "Replace duck with a duck" alert(result); ``` Shorthand for string replace: ```javascript var result = VerEx().find(red).replace(We have a red house, blue); // Outputs "We have a blue house" alert(result); ``` API documentation You can find the API documentation at the wiki pages. A little word for a big help Id like to promote a special thank-you to Ben Nadel for his great article about extending native JS objects Contributions Clone the repo and fork: git clone https://github.com/jehna/VerbalExpressions.git. Style guide The Airbnb style guide is loosely used as a basis for creating clean and readable JavaScript code. Pull requests are warmly welcome! Check out these slide decks for handy Github & git tips: - Git and Github Secrets - More Git and Github Secrets Other Implementations You can see an up to date list of all ports on VerbalExpressions.github.io. - Ruby - C# - Python - Java - Groovy - PHP - Haskell - Haxe - C++ - Objective-C - Perl - Swift If you would like to contribute another port (which would be awesome!), please open an issue specifying the language. A repo in the VerbalExpressions organization will be created for it. Please dont open PRs for other languages against this repo.