A curated list of delightful Visual Studio Code packages and resources. For more awesomeness, check out awesome. Table of Contents Official Syntax Editor Keymaps Migrating from Atom Migrating from Sublime Text Migrating from Visual Studio Migrating from Intellij IDEA Lint and IntelliSense 1C C++ C# CSS Go Haskell Java JavaScript Typescript Markdown PHP Python Rust Productivity Azure IoT Toolkit Bookmarks Copy Relative Path Deploy Gi Git History Git Project Manager GitLink GitLens Git Indicators GitHub Icon Fonts Live Server Multiple clipboards npm Intellisense Partial Diff Paste JSON as Code Path IntelliSense Project Manager REST Client Settings Sync Yo Formatting/Beautification Better Align Auto Close Tag Auto Rename Tag beautify ECMAScript Quotes Transformer Paste and Indent Sort Lines Wrap Selection Explorer Icons VSCode Icons Seti-UI Uncategorized Code Runner Color Highlight Output Colorizer Dash Debugger for Chrome ECMAScript Quotes Transformer Edit with Shell Command Editor Config for VS Code ftp-sync PlatformIO Quokka Runner Slack Spotify SVG Viewer Text Marker (Highlighter) Vim Mode Themes An Old Hope Theme Atom One Dark Syntax Theme Atom One Dark Theme Atom One Light Theme Ayu Base16 Ocean Kit Cobalt2 by Wes Bos Dracula Material-theme Nord Plastic Shades of Purple Seti Resources for extension developers Documentation Libraries Tools Contribute License Official Official website Source code on GitHub Releases (stable channel) Releases (insiders channel) Monthly iteration plans Syntax Language packages extend the editor with syntax highlighting and/or snippets for a specific language or file format. Arduino Blink CMake Dart Dockerfile EJS Elixir Elm Erlang F# Fortran Hack(HHVM) Handlebars KL Kotlin LaTeX Mason openHAB Parser 3 Pascal, or OmniPascal (only for Windows) Perl HTML-Template Protobuf Ruby Scala Stylus Swift VEX Zephir Editor Keymaps The VSCode team provides keymaps from popular editors, making the transition to VSCode almost seamless and easy. Migrating from Atom Popular Atom keybindings for Visual Studio Code Migrating from Sublime Text Popular Sublime Text keybindings for VS Code. Migrating from Visual Studio Popular Visual Studio keybindings for VS Code. Migrating from Intellij IDEA Popular Intellij IDEA keybindings for VS Code. Lint and IntelliSense In case the awesome nirvana that is linting has not yet been unleashed upon you: lint was the name originally given to a particular program that flagged some suspicious and non-portable constructs (likely to be bugs) in C language source code. The term is now applied generically to tools that flag suspicious usage in software written in any computer language. Unlike some other editors, VS Code supports IntelliSense, linting, outline out-of-the-box and doesnt require any separate extension to run linter packages. Some linters are already integrated in VS Code, you can find the full list in the official documentation, Languages section. 1C 1C/OScript - rich 1С:Enterprise 8 (BSL) language support in VSC - add syntax highlighting to .bsl и .os files in VSC, add IntelliSense and syntax helper for 1С lang C++ C/C++ - Preview C/C++ extension by Microsoft, read official blog post for the details gnu-global-tags - Provide Intellisense for C/C++ with the help of the GNU Global tool. YouCompleteMe - Provides semantic completions for C/C++ (and TypeScript, JavaScript, Objective-C, Golang, Rust) using YouCompleteMe. C/C++ Clang Command Adapter - Completion and Diagnostic for C/C++/Objective-C using Clang command. C C# - Preview C# extension by Microsoft, read official documentation for the details C# FixFormat - Fix format of usings / indents / braces / empty lines C# Extensions - Provides extensions to the IDE that will speed up your development workflow. CSS CSS Peek Peek or Jump to a CSS definition directly from HTML, just like in Brackets! stylelint - Lint CSS/SCSS. Autoprefixer Parse CSS,SCSS, LESS and add vendor prefixes automatically. Intellisense for CSS class names - Provides CSS class name completion for the HTML class attribute based on the CSS files in your workspace. Also supports Reacts className attribute. Go Go - Rich language support for the Go language. Haskell haskell-linter Java Language Support for Java(TM) by Red Hat Debugger for Java Maven for Java Lombok JavaScript Babel JavaScript Sublime Babel - Babel extension ported from Sublime Text See the difference between these two here tslint - TSLint for Visual Studio Code (with "tslint.jsEnable": true). eslint - Linter for eslint. XO - Linter for XO. AVA - Snippets for AVA. Prettier - Linter, Formatter and Pretty printer for Prettier. Debugger for Chrome A VS Code extension to debug your JavaScript code in the Chrome browser, or other targets that support the Chrome Debugging Protocol. TypeScript tslint - TSLint for Visual Studio Code Markdown markdownlint - Linter for markdownlint. PHP IntelliSense These extensions provide slightly different sets of features. While the first one offers better autocompletion support, the second one seems to have more features overall. PHP Intelephense PHP IntelliSense Twig Twig Language 2 To enable Emmet support in .twig files, youll need to have the following in your settings: json { "emmet.includeLanguages": { "twig": "html" } } Other extensions Composer PHP Debug - XDebug extension for Visual Studio Code PHP DocBlocker phpcs - PHP CodeSniffer for Visual Studio Code phpfmt - phpfmt for Visual Studio Code Read more Configuring Visual Studio Code for Drupal Python Python - Linting, Debugging (multi threaded, web apps), Intellisense, auto-completion, code formatting, snippets, unit testing, and more. Rust Rust - Linting, auto-completion, code formatting, snippets and more Productivity Azure Cosmos DB Browse your database inside the vs code editor Azure IoT Toolkit Everything you need for the Azure IoT development: Interact with Azure IoT Hub, manage devices connected to Azure IoT Hub, and develop with code snippets for Azure IoT Hub Bookmarks Mark lines and jump to them Copy Relative Path Copy Relative Path from a File Deploy Commands for upload or copy files of a workspace to a destination. Gi Generating .gitignore files made easy. Git History View git log, file or line History Git Project Manager Automatically indexes your git projects and lets you easily toggle between them GitLink GoTo current files online link in browser and Copy the link in clipboard. GitLens Provides Git CodeLens information (most recent commit, # of authors), on-demand inline blame annotations, status bar blame information, file and blame history explorers, and commands to compare changes with the working tree or previous versions. Git Indicators Atom like git indicators on active panel GitHub Provides GitHub workflow support. For example browse project, issues, file (the current line), create and manage pull request. Support for other providers (e.g. gitlab or bitbucket) is planned. Have a look at the README.md on how to get started with the setup for this extension. Icon Fonts Snippets for popular icon fonts such as Font Awesome, Ionicons, Glyphicons, Octicons, Material Design Icons and many more! Live Server Launch a development local Server with live reload feature for static & dynamic pages. Multiple clipboards Override the regular Copy and Cut commands to keep selections in a clipboard ring npm Intellisense Visual Studio Code plugin that autocompletes npm modules in import statements. Partial Diff Compare (diff) text selections within a file, across different files, or to the clipboard Paste JSON as Code Infer the structure of JSON and paste is as types in many programming languages Path Intellisense Visual Studio Code plugin that autocompletes filenames Project Manager Easily switch between projects. REST Client Allows you to send HTTP request and view the response in Visual Studio Code directly. Settings Sync Synchronize settings, snippets, themes, file icons, launch, keybindings, workspaces and extensions across multiple machines using Github Gist Yo Scaffold projects using Yeoman Formatting & Beautification Better Align Align your code by colon(:), assignment(=,+=,-=,*=,/=) and arrow(=>). It has additional support for comma-first coding style and trailing comment. And it doesnt require you to select what to be aligned, the extension will figure it out by itself. Auto Close Tag Automatically add HTML/XML close tag, same as Visual Studio IDE or Sublime Text Auto Rename Tag Auto rename paired HTML/XML tags beautify Beautify code in place for VS Code ECMAScript Quotes Transformer Transform quotes of ECMAScript string literals Paste and Indent Paste code with "correct" indentation Sort Lines Sorts lines of text in specific order Wrap Selection Wraps selection or multiple selections with symbol or multiple symbols Formatting Toggle Allows you to toggle your formatter on and off with a simple click Explorer Icons VSCode Icons Seti Icons Uncategorized Code Runner Run code snippet or code file for multiple languages: C, C++, Java, JavaScript, PHP, Python, Perl, Ruby, Go, Lua, Groovy, PowerShell, BAT/CMD, BASH/SH, F# Script, C# Script, VBScript, TypeScript, CoffeeScript, Scala, Swift, Julia, Crystal, OCaml Script Color Highlight Highlight web colors in your editor Output Colorizer Syntax highlighting for the VS Code Output Panel and log files Dash Dash integration in Visual Studio Code Edit with Shell Command Levarage your favourite shell commands to edit text Editor Config for VS Code Editor Config for VS Code ftp-sync Auto-sync your work to remote FTP server PlatformIO An open source ecosystem for IoT development: supports 350+ embedded boards, 20+ development platforms, 10+ frameworks. Arduino and ARM mbed compatible. Polacode Polaroid for your code 📸. Quokka Rapid prototyping playground for JavaScript and TypeScript in VS Code, with access to your projects files, inline reporting, code coverage and rich output formatting. Runner Run various scripts right from VS Code Slack Send messages and code snippets, upload files to Slack Spotify Provides integration with Spotify Desktop client. Shows the currently playing song in status bar, search lyrics and provides commands for controlling Spotify with buttons and hotkeys. SVG Viewer View an SVG in the editor and export it as data URI scheme or PNG. Text Marker (Highlighter) Highlight multiple text patterns with different colors at the same time. Highlighting a single text pattern can be done with the editors search functionality, but it cannot highlight multiple patterns at the same time, and this is where this extension comes handy. Vim Mode Relatively new, but promising extension implementing Vim features in VSCode. Authors suggest to join their Slack channel for feature requests on your favorite Vim features Themes UI If youre feeling brave, there are at least two custom UIs for VS Code: Essence Pragmatic Essence Syntax An Old Hope Theme Ariake Dark Color Theme Atom One Dark Syntax Theme Atom One Dark Theme Features full workbench theming Atom One Light Theme Features full workbench theming Ayu Base16 Ocean Kit Captain Sweetheart Cobalt2 Theme Official by Wes Bos Dracula Material-theme Nord Plastic Features full workbench theming Shades of Purple A professional theme with hand-picked & bold shades of purple 💜 to go along with your VS Code. A custom VS Code theme with style. Seti Resources for extension developers Documentation Extending Visual Studio Code section of Official Documentation Libraries vscode-set-text - An easy-to-use VS Code #setText() method. vscode-test-content - A method to set/get editor content, and its selection. Especially useful for unit tests. Tools Online TextMate Themes Editor - since VS Code supports TextMate themes, you can create them in this online editor and then create a new VS Code package using Yo Code tool Yo Code - Extension Generator Open in Code - macOS Finder toolbar app to open current folder in Visual Studio Code Themer - Easily create your own theme for VS Code (and matching ones for your other tools). Azure Tools for Visual Studio Code - This extension for Visual Studio Code gives Azure developers some convenient commands for creating or accessing resources directly in the editor. Contribute Contributions welcome! Read the contribution guidelines first. License To the extent possible under law, Valerii Iatsko has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.