Video.js - HTML5 Video Player Video.js is a web video player built from the ground up for an HTML5 world. It supports HTML5 and Flash video, as well as YouTube and Vimeo (through plugins). It supports video playback on desktops and mobile devices. This project was started mid 2010, and the player is now used on over ~~50,000~~ ~~100,000~~ ~~200,000~~ 400,000 websites. Table of Contents Quick Start Contributing Code of Conduct License Quick Start Thanks to the awesome folks over at Fastly, theres a free, CDN hosted version of Video.js that anyone can use. Add these tags to your documents <head>: html <link href="//vjs.zencdn.net/7.0/video-js.min.css" rel="stylesheet"> <script src="//vjs.zencdn.net/7.0/video.min.js"></script> For the latest version of video.js and URLs to use, check out the Getting Started page on our website. In the vjs.zencdn.net CDN-hosted versions of Video.js we include a stripped down Google Analytics pixel that tracks a random sampling (currently 1%) of players loaded from the CDN. This allows us to see (roughly) what browsers are in use in the wild, along with other useful metrics such as OS and device. If youd like to disable analytics, you can simply include the following global before including Video.js via the free CDN: html <script>window.HELP_IMPROVE_VIDEOJS = false;</script> Alternatively, you can include Video.js by getting it from npm, downloading from GitHub releases or by including it via unpkg or another JavaScript CDN like CDNjs. These releases do not include Google Analytics tracking at all. ```html unpkg cdnjs ``` Next, using Video.js is as simple as creating a <video> element, but with an additional data-setup attribute. At a minimum, this attribute must have a value of {}, but it can include any Video.js options - just make sure it contains valid JSON! html <video id="my-player" class="video-js" controls preload="auto" poster="//vjs.zencdn.net/v/oceans.png" data-setup={}> <source src="//vjs.zencdn.net/v/oceans.mp4" type="video/mp4"></source> <source src="//vjs.zencdn.net/v/oceans.webm" type="video/webm"></source> <source src="//vjs.zencdn.net/v/oceans.ogv" type="video/ogg"></source> <p class="vjs-no-js"> To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that <a href="http://videojs.com/html5-video-support/" target="_blank"> supports HTML5 video </a> </p> </video> When the page loads, Video.js will find this element and automatically setup a player in its place. If you dont want to use automatic setup, you can leave off the data-setup attribute and initialize a <video> element manually using the videojs function: js var player = videojs(my-player); The videojs function also accepts an options object and a callback to be invoked when the player is ready: ```js var options = {}; var player = videojs(my-player, options, function onPlayerReady() { videojs.log(Your player is ready!); // In this context, this is the player that was created by Video.js. this.play(); // How about an event listener? this.on(ended, function() { videojs.log(Awww...over so soon?!); }); }); ``` If youre ready to dive in, the Getting Started page and documentation are the best places to go for more information. If you get stuck, head over to our Slack channel! Contributing Video.js is a free and open source library, and we appreciate any help youre willing to give - whether its fixing bugs, improving documentation, or suggesting new features. Check out the contributing guide for more! Video.js uses BrowserStack for compatibility testing. Code of Conduct Please note that this project is released with a Contributor Code of Conduct. By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms. License Video.js is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.