vue-devtools Important Usage Notes If the page uses a production/minified build of Vue.js, devtools inspection is disabled by default so the Vue pane wont show up. To make it work for pages opened via file:// protocol, you need to check "Allow access to file URLs" for this extension in Chromes extension management panel. Works with vuex for time-travel debugging: Installation Get the Chrome Extension Get the Firefox Addon Get standalone Electron app (works with any environment!) Open component in editor To enable this feature, follow this guide. Manual Installation Make sure you are using Node 6+ and NPM 3+ Clone this repo npm install (Or yarn install if you are using yarn as the package manager) npm run build Open Chrome extension page Check "developer mode" Click "load unpacked extension", and choose shells/chrome. Hacking Clone this repo npm install npm run dev A plain shell with a test app will be available at localhost:8080. Testing as Firefox addon Install web-ext ~~~~ $ npm install --global web-ext ~~~~ Or, for Yarn: ~~~~ $ yarn global add web-ext ~~~~ Also, make sure PATH is set up. Something like this in ~/.bash_profile: ~~~~ $ PATH=$PATH:$(yarn global bin) ~~~~ Build and run in Firefox ~~~~ $ npm run build $ npm run run:firefox ~~~~ When using Yarn, just replace npm with yarn. Common problems and how to fix Fixing "Download the Vue Devtools for a better development experience" console message when working locally over file:// protocol: 1.1 - Google Chrome: Right click on vue-devtools icon and click "Manage Extensions" then search for vue-devtools on the extensions list. Check the "Allow access to file URLs" box. How to use the devtools in IE/Edge/Safari or any other browser? Get the standalone Electron app (works with any environment!) License MIT