Supporting Vue.js Vue.js is an MIT-licensed open source project. Its an independent project with its ongoing development made possible entirely thanks to the support by these awesome backers. If youd like to join them, please consider: Become a backer or sponsor on Patreon. Become a backer or sponsor on OpenCollective. Whats the difference between Patreon and OpenCollective? Funds donated via Patreon goes directly to support Evan Yous full-time work on Vue.js. Funds donated via OpenCollective are managed with transparent expenses and will be used for compensating work and expenses by core team members or sponsoring community events. Your name/logo will receive proper recognition and exposure by donating on either platform. Sponsors via Patreon Platinum Gold Sponsors via OpenCollective Platinum Gold Introduction Vue (pronounced /vjuː/, like view) is a progressive framework for building user interfaces. It is designed from the ground up to be incrementally adoptable, and can easily scale between a library and a framework depending on different use cases. It consists of an approachable core library that focuses on the view layer only, and an ecosystem of supporting libraries that helps you tackle complexity in large Single-Page Applications. Browser Compatibility Vue.js supports all browsers that are ES5-compliant (IE8 and below are not supported). Ecosystem | Project | Status | Description | |---------|--------|-------------| | vue-router | ![vue-router-status] | Single-page application routing | | vuex | ![vuex-status] | Large-scale state management | | vue-cli | ![vue-cli-status] | Project scaffolding | | vue-loader | ![vue-loader-status] | Single File Component (*.vue file) loader for webpack | | vue-server-renderer | ![vue-server-renderer-status] | Server-side rendering support | | vue-class-component | ![vue-class-component-status] | TypeScript decorator for a class-based API | | vue-rx | ![vue-rx-status] | RxJS integration | | vue-devtools | ![vue-devtools-status] | Browser DevTools extension | Documentation To check out live examples and docs, visit vuejs.org. Questions For questions and support please use the the official forum or community chat. The issue list of this repo is exclusively for bug reports and feature requests. Issues Please make sure to read the Issue Reporting Checklist before opening an issue. Issues not conforming to the guidelines may be closed immediately. Changelog Detailed changes for each release are documented in the release notes. Stay In Touch Twitter Blog Job Board Contribution Please make sure to read the Contributing Guide before making a pull request. If you have a Vue-related project/component/tool, add it with a pull-request to this curated list! Thank you to all the people who already contributed to Vue! License MIT Copyright (c) 2013-present, Yuxi (Evan) You