vue-cli A simple CLI for scaffolding Vue.js projects. Installation Prerequisites: Node.js (>=6.x, 8.x preferred), npm version 3+ and Git. bash $ npm install -g vue-cli Usage bash $ vue init <template-name> <project-name> Example: bash $ vue init webpack my-project The above command pulls the template from vuejs-templates/webpack, prompts for some information, and generates the project at ./my-project/. vue build Use vue-cli as a zero-configuration development tool for your Vue apps and component, check out the docs. Official Templates The purpose of official Vue project templates are to provide opinionated, battery-included development tooling setups so that users can get started with actual app code as fast as possible. However, these templates are un-opinionated in terms of how you structure your app code and what libraries you use in addition to Vue.js. All official project templates are repos in the vuejs-templates organization. When a new template is added to the organization, you will be able to run vue init <template-name> <project-name> to use that template. You can also run vue list to see all available official templates. Current available templates include: webpack - A full-featured Webpack + vue-loader setup with hot reload, linting, testing & css extraction. webpack-simple - A simple Webpack + vue-loader setup for quick prototyping. browserify - A full-featured Browserify + vueify setup with hot-reload, linting & unit testing. browserify-simple - A simple Browserify + vueify setup for quick prototyping. pwa - PWA template for vue-cli based on the webpack template simple - The simplest possible Vue setup in a single HTML file Custom Templates Its unlikely to make everyone happy with the official templates. You can simply fork an official template and then use it via vue-cli with: bash vue init username/repo my-project Where username/repo is the GitHub repo shorthand for your fork. The shorthand repo notation is passed to download-git-repo so you can also use things like bitbucket:username/repo for a Bitbucket repo and username/repo#branch for tags or branches. If you would like to download from a private repository use the --clone flag and the cli will use git clone so your SSH keys are used. Local Templates Instead of a GitHub repo, you can also use a template on your local file system: bash vue init ~/fs/path/to-custom-template my-project Writing Custom Templates from Scratch A template repo must have a template directory that holds the template files. A template repo may have a metadata file for the template which can be either a meta.js or meta.json file. It can contain the following fields: prompts: used to collect user options data; filters: used to conditional filter files to render. metalsmith: used to add custom metalsmith plugins in the chain. completeMessage: the message to be displayed to the user when the template has been generated. You can include custom instruction here. complete: Instead of using completeMessage, you can use a function to run stuffs when the template has been generated. prompts The prompts field in the metadata file should be an object hash containing prompts for the user. For each entry, the key is the variable name and the value is an Inquirer.js question object. Example: json { "prompts": { "name": { "type": "string", "required": true, "message": "Project name" } } } After all prompts are finished, all files inside template will be rendered using Handlebars, with the prompt results as the data. Conditional Prompts A prompt can be made conditional by adding a when field, which should be a JavaScript expression evaluated with data collected from previous prompts. For example: json { "prompts": { "lint": { "type": "confirm", "message": "Use a linter?" }, "lintConfig": { "when": "lint", "type": "list", "message": "Pick a lint config", "choices": [ "standard", "airbnb", "none" ] } } } The prompt for lintConfig will only be triggered when the user answered yes to the lint prompt. Pre-registered Handlebars Helpers Two commonly used Handlebars helpers, if_eq and unless_eq are pre-registered: handlebars {{#if_eq lintConfig "airbnb"}};{{/if_eq}} Custom Handlebars Helpers You may want to register additional Handlebars helpers using the helpers property in the metadata file. The object key is the helper name: js module.exports = { helpers: { lowercase: str => str.toLowerCase() } } Upon registration, they can be used as follows: handlebars {{ lowercase name }} File filters The filters field in the metadata file should be an object hash containing file filtering rules. For each entry, the key is a minimatch glob pattern and the value is a JavaScript expression evaluated in the context of prompt answers data. Example: json { "filters": { "test/**/*": "needTests" } } Files under test will only be generated if the user answered yes to the prompt for needTests. Note that the dot option for minimatch is set to true so glob patterns would also match dotfiles by default. Skip rendering The skipInterpolation field in the metadata file should be a minimatch glob pattern. The files matched should skip rendering. Example: json { "skipInterpolation": "src/**/*.vue" } Metalsmith vue-cli uses metalsmith to generate the project. You may customize the metalsmith builder created by vue-cli to register custom plugins. ```js { "metalsmith": function (metalsmith, opts, helpers) { function customMetalsmithPlugin (files, metalsmith, done) { // Implement something really custom here. done(null, files) } metalsmith.use(customMetalsmithPlugin) } } ``` If you need to hook metalsmith before questions are asked, you may use an object with before key. js { "metalsmith": { before: function (metalsmith, opts, helpers) {}, after: function (metalsmith, opts, helpers) {} } } Additional data available in meta.{js,json} destDirName - destination directory name json { "completeMessage": "To get started:\n\n cd {{destDirName}}\n npm install\n npm run dev" } inPlace - generating template into current directory json { "completeMessage": "{{#inPlace}}To get started:\n\n npm install\n npm run dev.{{else}}To get started:\n\n cd {{destDirName}}\n npm install\n npm run dev.{{/inPlace}}" } complete function Arguments: data: the same data you can access in completeMessage: js { complete (data) { if (!data.inPlace) { console.log(`cd ${data.destDirName}`) } } } helpers: some helpers you can use to log results. chalk: the chalk module logger: the built-in vue-cli logger files: An array of generated files js { complete (data, {logger, chalk}) { if (!data.inPlace) { logger.log(`cd ${chalk.yellow(data.destDirName)}`) } } } Installing a specific template version vue-cli uses the tool download-git-repo to download the official templates used. The download-git-repo tool allows you to indicate a specific branch for a given repository by providing the desired branch name after a pound sign (#). The format needed for a specific official template is: vue init <template-name>#<branch-name> <project-name> Example: Installing the 1.0 branch of the webpack-simple vue template: vue init webpack-simple#1.0 mynewproject Note: The surrounding quotes are necessary on zsh shells because of the special meaning of the # character. License MIT