vue-router Compatibility Note: vue-router requires Vue.js 0.12.10+ and currently does not support Vue.js 2.0. Introduction vue-router is the official router for Vue.js. It deeply integrates with Vue.js core to make building Single Page Applications with Vue.js a breeze. Features include: Nested route/view mapping Modular, component-based router configuration Route params, query, wildcards View transition effects powered by Vue.js transition system Fine-grained navigation control Links with automatic active CSS classes HTML5 history mode or hash mode, with auto-fallback in IE9 Restore scroll position when going back in history mode Get started with the documentation. Development Setup ``` bash install deps npm install build dist files npm run build serve example app at localhost:8080 npm run serve-example and unit tests at localhost:8081 npm run dev lint & run all tests npm test run unit tests only npm run unit run e2e tests only npm run e2e-local ``` Questions For questions and support please use the Gitter chat room or the official forum. The issue list of this repo is exclusively for bug reports and feature requests. Issues Please make sure to read the Issue Reporting Checklist before opening an issue. Issues not conforming to the guidelines may be closed immediately. Contribution Please make sure to read the Contributing Guide before making a pull request. Changelog Details changes for each release are documented in the release notes. Stay In Touch For latest releases and announcements, follow on Twitter: @vuejs License MIT Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Evan You