Professionally-supported Vuetify.js now available Tidelift gives software development teams a single source for purchasing and maintaining their software, with professional-grade assurances from the experts who know it best, while seamlessly integrating with existing tools. Get supported Vuetify.js with the Tidelift Subscription Supporting through Patreon Vuetify is an open source MIT project that has been made possible due to the generous contributions by community backers. If you are interested in supporting this project, please consider becoming a patron. Diamond Palladium Introduction Vuetify is a semantic component framework for Vue. It aims to provide clean, semantic and reusable components that make building your application a breeze. Build amazing applications with the power of Vue and Material Design and a massive library of beautifully crafted components. Created according to Googles Material Design Spec, Vuetify components feature an easy-to-remember semantic design that shifts remembering complex classes and markup, to type-as-you speak properties that have simple and clear names. Harness the power of the Vuetify community and get help 24/7 from the development team and our talented community members across the world. Become a backer and get access to dedicated support from the team. Browser Support Vuetify supports all modern browsers, including IE11 and Safari 9+ (using polyfills). From mobile to laptop to desktop, you can rest assured that your application will work as expected. Interested in the bleeding edge? Try the vue-cli Webpack SSR (Server side rendered) template and build websites optimized for SEO. Documentation You can find the Vuetify documentation on the website. One Click Quick-start Codepen link ```html <!DOCTYPE html> My Application Hello World new Vue({ el: #app }) ``` Vue CLI-3 Install bash vue create my-app // THEN vue add vuetify Installation ``` bash npm npm install vuetify ``` ``` bash yarn yarn add vuetify ``` Usage ```javascript import Vue from vue import Vuetify from vuetify Vue.use(Vuetify) ``` For including styles, you can either place the below styles in your index.html html <link href=https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:300,400,500,700|Material+Icons rel="stylesheet"> <link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vuetify/dist/vuetify.min.css" rel="stylesheet"> Or you can import it to your webpack entry point javascript require(https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:300,400,500,700|Material+Icons) require(/path/to/node_modules/vuetify/dist/vuetify.min.css) Keep in mind, you will need to ensure your webpack config contains a css loader. Community Support Ask your support questions on the Vuetify Discord Community. Frequently asked questions and Gotchas on the FAQ Guide Contributing Developers interested in contributing should read the Code of Conduct. Please do not ask general questions in an issue. Issues are only to report bugs, request enhancements, or request new features. For general questions and discussions, ask on the Vuetify Discord Community. It is important to note that for each release, the detailed changes are documented in the release notes. Contributing Guide You can request features using the Feature Request Template or report bugs using the Bug Report Template and create a minimal reproduction with a CodePen template or a full project at CodeSandbox. Good First Issue To help you get you familiar with our contribution process, we have a list of good first issues that contain bugs which have a relatively limited scope. This is a great place to get started. We also have a list of help wanted issues that you might want to check. License Vuetify is MIT licensed.