Help Maintain Vundle Table of Contents About Quick Start Docs Changelog People Using Vundle Contributors Inspiration & Ideas Also TODO About Vundle is short for Vim bundle and is a Vim plugin manager. Vundle allows you to... keep track of and configure your plugins right in the .vimrc install configured plugins (a.k.a. scripts/bundle) update configured plugins search by name all available Vim scripts clean unused plugins up run the above actions in a single keypress with interactive mode Vundle automatically... manages the runtime path of your installed scripts regenerates help tags after installing and updating Vundle is undergoing an interface change, please stay up to date to get latest changes. for discussion and support. Quick Start Introduction: Installation requires Git and triggers [git clone] for each configured repository to ~/.vim/bundle/ by default. Curl is required for search. If you are using Windows, go directly to Windows setup. If you run into any issues, please consult the FAQ. See Tips for some advanced configurations. Using non-POSIX shells, such as the popular Fish shell, requires additional setup. Please check the FAQ. Set up Vundle: git clone https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim.git ~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim Configure Plugins: Put this at the top of your .vimrc to use Vundle. Remove plugins you dont need, they are for illustration purposes. ```vim set nocompatible " be iMproved, required filetype off " required " set the runtime path to include Vundle and initialize set rtp+=~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim call vundle#begin() " alternatively, pass a path where Vundle should install plugins "call vundle#begin(~/some/path/here) " let Vundle manage Vundle, required Plugin VundleVim/Vundle.vim " The following are examples of different formats supported. " Keep Plugin commands between vundle#begin/end. " plugin on GitHub repo Plugin tpope/vim-fugitive " plugin from http://vim-scripts.org/vim/scripts.html " Plugin L9 " Git plugin not hosted on GitHub Plugin git://git.wincent.com/command-t.git " git repos on your local machine (i.e. when working on your own plugin) Plugin file:///home/gmarik/path/to/plugin " The sparkup vim script is in a subdirectory of this repo called vim. " Pass the path to set the runtimepath properly. Plugin rstacruz/sparkup, {rtp: vim/} " Install L9 and avoid a Naming conflict if youve already installed a " different version somewhere else. " Plugin ascenator/L9, {name: newL9} " All of your Plugins must be added before the following line call vundle#end() " required filetype plugin indent on " required " To ignore plugin indent changes, instead use: "filetype plugin on " " Brief help " :PluginList - lists configured plugins " :PluginInstall - installs plugins; append ! to update or just :PluginUpdate " :PluginSearch foo - searches for foo; append ! to refresh local cache " :PluginClean - confirms removal of unused plugins; append ! to auto-approve removal " " see :h vundle for more details or wiki for FAQ " Put your non-Plugin stuff after this line ``` Install Plugins: Launch vim and run :PluginInstall To install from command line: vim +PluginInstall +qall (optional) For those using the fish shell: add set shell=/bin/bash to your .vimrc Docs See the :h vundle Vimdoc for more details. Changelog See the changelog. People Using Vundle see Examples Contributors see Vundle contributors Thank you! Inspiration & Ideas pathogen.vim Bundler Scott Bronson Also Vundle was developed and tested with Vim 7.3 on OS X, Linux and Windows Vundle tries to be as KISS as possible TODO Vundle is a work in progress, so any ideas and patches are appreciated. [x] activate newly added bundles on .vimrc reload or after :PluginInstall [x] use preview window for search results [x] Vim documentation [x] put Vundle in bundles/ too (will fix Vundle help) [x] tests [x] improve error handling [ ] allow specifying revision/version? [ ] handle dependencies [ ] show description in search results [ ] search by description as well [ ] make it rock!