Webpack Bundle Analyzer Visualize size of webpack output files with an interactive zoomable treemap. Install bash npm install --save-dev webpack-bundle-analyzer Usage (as a plugin) ```js const BundleAnalyzerPlugin = require(webpack-bundle-analyzer).BundleAnalyzerPlugin; module.exports = { plugins: [ new BundleAnalyzerPlugin() ] } ``` It will create an interactive treemap visualization of the contents of all your bundles. This module will help you: Realize whats really inside your bundle Find out what modules make up the most of its size Find modules that got there by mistake Optimize it! And the best thing is it supports minified bundles! It parses them to get real size of bundled modules. And it also shows their gzipped sizes! Options (for plugin) js new BundleAnalyzerPlugin(options?: object) |Name|Type|Description| |:--:|:--:|:----------| |analyzerMode|One of: server, static, disabled|Default: server. In server mode analyzer will start HTTP server to show bundle report. In static mode single HTML file with bundle report will be generated. In disabled mode you can use this plugin to just generate Webpack Stats JSON file by setting generateStatsFile to true. | |analyzerHost|{String}|Default: 127.0.0.1. Host that will be used in server mode to start HTTP server.| |analyzerPort|{Number}|Default: 8888. Port that will be used in server mode to start HTTP server.| |reportFilename|{String}|Default: report.html. Path to bundle report file that will be generated in static mode. Relative to bundle output directory (which is output.path in webpack config).| |defaultSizes|One of: stat, parsed, gzip|Default: parsed. Module sizes to show in report by default. Size definitions section describes what these values mean.| |openAnalyzer|{Boolean}|Default: true. Automatically open report in default browser.| |generateStatsFile|{Boolean}|Default: false. If true, webpack stats JSON file will be generated in bundle output directory| |statsFilename|{String}|Default: stats.json. Name of webpack stats JSON file that will be generated if generateStatsFile is true. Relative to bundle output directory.| |statsOptions|null or {Object}|Default: null. Options for stats.toJson() method. For example you can exclude sources of your modules from stats file with source: false option. See more options here. | |excludeAssets|{null\|pattern\|pattern[]} where pattern equals to {String\|RegExp\|function}|Default: null. Patterns that will be used to match against asset names to exclude them from the report. If pattern is a string it will be converted to RegExp via new RegExp(str). If pattern is a function it should have the following signature (assetName: string) => boolean and should return true to exclude matching asset. If multiple patterns are provided asset should match at least one of them to be excluded. | |logLevel|One of: info, warn, error, silent|Default: info. Used to control how much details the plugin outputs.| Usage (as a CLI utility) You can analyze an existing bundle if you have a webpack stats JSON file. You can generate it using BundleAnalyzerPlugin with generateStatsFile option set to true or with this simple command: bash webpack --profile --json > stats.json If youre on Windows and using PowerShell, you can generate the stats file with this command to avoid BOM issues: webpack --profile --json | Out-file stats.json -Encoding OEM Then you can run the CLI tool. webpack-bundle-analyzer bundle/output/path/stats.json Options (for CLI) bash webpack-bundle-analyzer <bundleStatsFile> [bundleDir] [options] Arguments are documented below: bundleStatsFile Path to webpack stats JSON file bundleDir Directory containing all generated bundles. options -V, --version output the version number -m, --mode <mode> Analyzer mode. Should be `server` or `static`. In `server` mode analyzer will start HTTP server to show bundle report. In `static` mode single HTML file with bundle report will be generated. (default: server) -h, --host <host> Host that will be used in `server` mode to start HTTP server. (default: 127.0.0.1) -p, --port <n> Port that will be used in `server` mode to start HTTP server. (default: 8888) -r, --report <file> Path to bundle report file that will be generated in `static` mode. (default: report.html) -s, --default-sizes <type> Module sizes to show in treemap by default. Possible values: stat, parsed, gzip (default: parsed) -O, --no-open Dont open report in default browser automatically. -e, --exclude <regexp> Assets that should be excluded from the report. Can be specified multiple times. -l, --log-level <level> Log level. Possible values: debug, info, warn, error, silent (default: info) -h, --help output usage information Size definitions webpack-bundle-analyzer reports three values for sizes. defaultSizes can be used to control which of these is shown by default. The different reported sizes are: stat This is the "input" size of your files, before any transformations like minification. It is called "stat size" because its obtained from Webpacks stats object. parsed This is the "output" size of your files. If youre using a Webpack plugin such as Uglify, then this value will reflect the minified size of your code. gzip This is the size of running the parsed bundles/modules through gzip compression. Troubleshooting I cant see all the dependencies in a chunk This is a known caveat when webpack.optimize.ModuleConcatenationPlugin is used with Webpack 3 or webpack-bundle-analyzer < 2.11.0. The way ModuleConcatenationPlugin works is that it merges multiple modules into a single one, and so that resulting module doesnt have edges anymore. Webpack 3 didnt provide any information about concatenated modules, but Webpack 4 started including it into a stats files and webpack-bundle-analyzer 2.11.0 learned to show it. If for some reason you cant update to the latest versions try analyzing your bundle without ModuleConcatenationPlugin. See issue #115 for more discussion. If you are using Angular CLI < 6.0.0 (which is based on Webpack 3 and uses ModuleConcatenationPlugin) you can build your project using the following command: ng build --stats-json --build-optimizer=false --vendor-chunk=true The resulting stats.json can be found at dist/stats.json Please be aware, that this is not a reasonable build for production use, as it increases the build output size considerably. Maintainers Yuriy Grunin Vesa Laakso Contributing Check out CONTRIBUTING.md for instructions on contributing :tada: