Wekan Please read FAQ. Please dont feed the trolls and spammers that are mentioned in the FAQ :) Wekan is an completely Open Source and Free software collaborative kanban board application with MIT license. Whether youre maintaining a personal todo list, planning your holidays with some friends, or working in a team on your next revolutionary idea, Kanban boards are an unbeatable tool to keep your things organized. They give you a visual overview of the current state of your project, and make you productive by allowing you to focus on the few items that matter the most. Wekan has real-time user interface. Not all features are implemented. Features Wekan supports many Platforms, and plan is to add more. Integrations Team You dont have to trust us with your data and can install Wekan on your own computer or server. In fact we encourage you to do that by providing one-click installation on various platforms. Roadmap Roadmap Upcoming Wekan App Development Platform will make possible many use cases. If you dont find your feature or integration in GitHub issues and Features or Integrations page at wiki, please add them. We are very welcoming to new developers and teams to submit new pull requests to devel branch to make this Wekan App Development Platform possible faster. Please see Developer Documentation to get started. We also welcome sponsors for features, although we dont have any yet. By working directly with Wekan you get the benefit of active maintenance and new features added by growing Wekan developer community. Actual work happens at Wekan GitHub issues. See Development links on Wekan wiki bottom of the page for more info. Demo Wekan demo Screenshot More screenshots at Features page Since Wekan is a free software, you dont have to trust us with your data and can install Wekan on your own computer or server. In fact we encourage you to do that by providing one-click installation on various platforms. License Wekan is released under the very permissive MIT license, and made with Meteor.