React Native Navigation Important We are currently in late stages of development of v2, which is published to npm under alpha tag. New to RNN? We recommend you start with v2. Already using v1? now is the time to migrate your code base to v2, and you can easily do so with a single line of code using the v1-v2 adapter. * v2 Documentation Have any questions regarding v2? Join us in Discord #v2 channel. Latest stable version is 1.1.x and is published to npm under tag latest. It supports react-native >= 0.48. ⚠️Since were focusing our efforts on v2, we are not accepting pull requests for v1 and are not addresing issues for v1. tl;dr React Native Navigation provides 100% native platform navigation on both iOS and Android for React Native apps. The JavaScript API is simple and cross-platform - just install it in your app and give your users the native feel they deserve. Using redux? No problem: React Native Navigation comes with optional redux support out of the box. Ready to get started? Check out the docs. Real world examples On the left - The Wix app. On the right - The example app. Quick Links Documentation Stack Overflow Chat with us Bootstrap - If you prefer to learn more about the library and the APIs through code, head over to the bootstrap example app or the more feature rich JuneDomingo/movieapp v2 - Under Development One of the major things missing from React Native core is fully featured native navigation. Navigation includes the entire skeleton of your app with critical components like nav bars, tab bars and side menu drawers. If youre trying to deliver a user experience thats on par with the best native apps out there, you simply cant compromise on JS-based components trying to fake the real thing. For example, this package replaces the native NavigatorIOS that has been abandoned in favor of JS-based solutions that are easier to maintain. For more details see in-depth discussion here. License The MIT License. See LICENSE