x64dbg Note Please run install.bat before you start committing code, this ensures your code is auto-formatted to the x64dbg standards. Compiling For a complete guide on compiling x64dbg read this. Downloads Releases of x64dbg can be found here. Snapshots of x64dbg can be found here. Jenkins build server can be found here. Overview x64dbg is an open-source x32/x64 debugger for Windows. Features Open-source Intuitive and familiar, yet new user interface C-like expression parser Full-featured debugging of DLL and EXE files (TitanEngine) IDA-like sidebar with jump arrows IDA-like instruction token highlighter (highlight registers, etc.) Memory map Symbol view Thread view Source code view Content-sensitive register view Fully customizable color scheme Dynamically recognize modules and strings Import reconstructor integrated (Scylla) Fast disassembler (Capstone) User database (JSON) for comments, labels, bookmarks, etc. Plugin support with growing API Extendable, debuggable scripting language for automation Multi-datatype memory dump Basic debug symbol (PDB) support Dynamic stack view Built-in assembler (XEDParse) Executable patching Yara Pattern Matching Decompiler (Snowman) Analysis License x64dbg is licensed under GPLv3, which means you can freely distribute and/or modify the source of x64dbg, as long as you share your changes with us. The only exception is that plugins you write do not have to comply with the GPLv3 license. They do not have to be open-source and they can be commercial and/or private. The only exception to this is when your plugin uses code copied from x64dbg. In that case you would still have to share the changes to x64dbg with us. Credits Debugger core by TitanEngine Community Edition Disassembly powered by Capstone Assembly powered by XEDParse Import reconstruction powered by Scylla JSON powered by Jansson Database compression powered by lz4 Bug icon by VisualPharm Interface icons by Fugue Website by tr4ceflow Special Thanks (in no particular order) EXETools community Tuts4You community acidflash cyberbob Teddy Rogers TEAM DVT DMichael Artic ahmadmansoor Developers (in order of joining) Mr. eXoDia Sigma tr4ceflow Dreg Nukem