React Intl Internationalize React apps. This library provides React components and an API to format dates, numbers, and strings, including pluralization and handling translations. Overview React Intl is part of FormatJS. It provides bindings to React via its components and API. Documentation React Intls docs are in this GitHub repos Wiki, Get Started. There are also several runnable example apps which you can reference to learn how all the pieces fit together. (If youre looking for React Intl v1, you can find it here.) Features Display numbers with separators. Display dates and times correctly. Display dates relative to "now". Pluralize labels in strings. Support for 150+ languages. Runs in the browser and Node.js. Built on standards. Example There are several runnable examples in this Git repo, but heres a Hello World one: ```js import React, {Component} from react; import ReactDOM from react-dom; import {IntlProvider, FormattedMessage} from react-intl; class App extends Component { constructor(props) { super(props); this.state = { name : Eric, unreadCount: 1000, }; } render() { const {name, unreadCount} = this.state; return ( <p> <FormattedMessage id="welcome" defaultMessage={`Hello {name}, you have {unreadCount, number} {unreadCount, plural, one {message} other {messages} }`} values={{name: <b>{name}</b>, unreadCount}} /> </p> ); } } ReactDOM.render( , document.getElementById(container) ); ``` This example would render: "Hello Eric, you have 1,000 messages." into the container element on the page. Pluralization rules: In some languages you have more than one and other. For example in ru there are the following plural rules: one, few, many and other. Check out the official Unicode CLDR documentation. Contribute Lets make React Intl and FormatJS better! If youre interested in helping, all contributions are welcome and appreciated. React Intl is just one of many packages that make up the FormatJS suite of packages, and you can contribute to any/all of them, including the Format JS website itself. Check out the Contributing document for the details. Thanks! License This software is free to use under the Yahoo Inc. BSD license. See the LICENSE file for license text and copyright information.