Front End Interview Handbook Credits: Illustration by @yangheng What is this? Unlike typical software engineer job interviews, front-end job interviews have less emphasis on algorithms and have more questions on intricate knowledge and expertise about the domain — HTML, CSS, JavaScript, just to name a few areas. While there are some existing resources to help front end developers in preparing for interviews, they arent as abundant as materials for a software engineer interview. Among the existing resources, probably the most helpful question bank would be Front-end Developer Interview Questions. Unfortunately, I couldnt find many complete and satisfactory answers to these questions online, hence here is my attempt at answering them. Being an open source repository, the project can live on with the support of the community as the state of web evolves. Looking for Generic Interview Preparation? You might be interested in the Tech Interview Handbook which has helpful content on general coding interviews such as algorithms, behavioral questions and an interview cheatsheet! Table of Contents HTML Questions CSS Questions JavaScript Questions Translations English Simplified Chinese (简体中文) Tagalog Japanese (日本語) Korean Related If you are interested in how data structures are implemented, check out Lago, a Data Structures and Algorithms library for JavaScript. It is pretty much still WIP but I intend to make it into a library that is able to be used in production and also a reference resource for revising Data Structures and Algorithms. Contributing Code of Conduct We have adopted the same Code of Conduct as Facebook that we expect project participants to adhere to. Please read the full text so that you can understand what actions will and will not be tolerated. Contributing Guide Read our contributing guide to learn about how you can contribute, how to propose improvements or if you are interested in translating the content. License All projects and packages in this repository are MIT licensed.