Welcome, Friend! Yeoman is a robust and opinionated set of tools, libraries, and a workflow that can help developers quickly build beautiful, compelling web apps. Website Getting Started Submit Issue Code of Conduct Everyone in this community (from core members to random committers and volunteers) are asked to please act in accordance with the Yeoman Community Contributor Code of Conduct. We encourage you to follow these social rules which help guide our interactions with each other, and ensure we provide a safe environment for everyone. We aim to make Yeoman a positive, welcoming, open and inclusive project and community. Code of Conduct Issue Submission Make sure youve read the issue submission guidelines before you open a new issue. Yeoman is composed of a number of different sub-projects, most of which have their own dedicated repository. If you are looking for a repo for a particular piece, youll find it on the organization page. Feature requests Feature requests should be submitted to the repo it concerns. Submit to yeoman/yeoman if youre unsure, otherwise the repositories for our officially maintained generators can be found here. Contribute See the contributing docs Support Need help or have a question? Stack Overflow Gitter chat Please dont use the issue trackers for support/questions. Links Website Development discussions Google+ Twitter Media kit Discover Bower packages Team Yeoman is beautifully crafted by these people and a bunch of awesome contributors | | | | :---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---: Addy Osmani | Sindre Sorhus | Pascal Hartig | Stephen Sawchuk | Simon Boudrias | | | | :---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---: Brian Ford | Eddie Monge | Paul Irish | Hemanth.HM | Revath S Kumar | | | | :---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---: Jimmy Moon | Frederick Ros | Mickael Daniel | Eric Bidelman | Matija Marohnić | | | :---:|:---:|:---:|:---: Kevin Mårtensson | Arthur Verschaeve | Michael Kühnel | Mehdy Dara Backers Love Yeoman work and community? Help us keep it alive by donating funds to cover project expenses! [Become a backer] License BSD license Copyright (c) Google