Marp Markdown presentation writer, powered by Electron. :warning: This repository is pre-release version, and we have already dropped maintenance. We are planning the future of Marp at @marp-team/marp (UNDER CONSTRUCTION and NOT READY TO USE). We will archive this repository when a future Marp has grown to replace a pre-release version. Usage Install :arrow_forward: Download latest archives from release page. Windows: Unzip *.*.*-Marp-win32-[arch].zip and run Marp.exe. macOS: Mount *.*.*-Marp-darwin-x64.dmg, D&D Marp to Applications and run it from Applications folder / Launchpad. Or use Homebrew Cask: brew cask install marp Linux: Unpack *.*.*-Marp-linux-[arch].tar.gz and run Marp. How to write slides? Split slides by horizontal ruler ---. Its very simple. Please refer to example.md. ```md Slide 1 foobar Slide 2 foobar ``` For developers Getting started yarn install yarn start Customizing Slide CSS Its easy, include a <link> tag at the top of your presentation, or alternatively a <style> tag that contains all of your styles. All CSS should be targeting either .slide or elements inside of .slide. For reference, check out the gaia theme in the sass folder. Create release builds yarn gulp release Please set application version in package.json. OS specific Windows If you want to build for Windows in other platforms, please install Wine to rewrite Electrons resources. macOS To build for Darwin is only supported in macOS. Licenses Copyright © 2016-2018 Yuki Hattori. This software released under the MIT License.