Redux DevTools Extension Installation 1. For Chrome from Chrome Web Store; or build it with npm i && npm run build:extension and load the extensions folder ./build/extension; or run it in dev mode with npm i && npm start and load the extensions folder ./dev. 2. For Firefox from Mozilla Add-ons; or build it with npm i && npm run build:firefox and load the extensions folder ./build/firefox (just select a file from inside the dir). 3. For Electron just specify REDUX_DEVTOOLS in electron-devtools-installer. 4. For other browsers and non-browser environment use remote-redux-devtools. Usage Note that starting from v2.7, window.devToolsExtension was renamed to window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__ / window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION_COMPOSE__. 1. With Redux 1.1 Basic store For a basic Redux store simply add: diff const store = createStore( reducer, /* preloadedState, */ + window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__ && window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__() ); Note that preloadedState argument is optional in Redux createStore. For universal ("isomorphic") apps, prefix it with typeof window !== undefined &&. In case ESLint is configured to not allow using the underscore dangle, wrap it like so: diff + /* eslint-disable no-underscore-dangle */ const store = createStore( reducer, /* preloadedState, */ window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__ && window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION__() ); + /* eslint-enable */ Note: Passing enhancer as last argument requires redux@>=3.1.0. For older versions apply it like here or here. Dont mix the old Redux API with the new one. You dont need to npm install redux-devtools when using the extension (thats a different lib). 1.2 Advanced store setup If you setup your store with middleware and enhancers, change: ```diff import { createStore, applyMiddleware, compose } from redux; const composeEnhancers = window.REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION_COMPOSE || compose; const store = createStore(reducer, / preloadedState, / composeEnhancers( const store = createStore(reducer, / preloadedState, / compose( applyMiddleware(...middleware) )); ``` Note that when the extension is not installed, were using Redux compose here. To specify extensions options, use it like so: ```js const composeEnhancers = typeof window === object && window.REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION_COMPOSE ? window.REDUX_DEVTOOLS_EXTENSION_COMPOSE({ // Specify extensions options like name, actionsBlacklist, actionsCreators, serialize... }) : compose; const enhancer = composeEnhancers( applyMiddleware(...middleware), // other store enhancers if any ); const store = createStore(reducer, enhancer); ``` See the post for more details. 1.3 Use redux-devtools-extension package from npm To make things easier, theres an npm package to install: npm install --save-dev redux-devtools-extension and to use like so: ```js import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from redux; import { composeWithDevTools } from redux-devtools-extension; const store = createStore(reducer, composeWithDevTools( applyMiddleware(...middleware), // other store enhancers if any )); To specify [extensions options](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension/blob/master/docs/API/Arguments.md#windowdevtoolsextensionconfig):js import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from redux; import { composeWithDevTools } from redux-devtools-extension; const composeEnhancers = composeWithDevTools({ // Specify name here, actionsBlacklist, actionsCreators and other options if needed }); const store = createStore(reducer, / preloadedState, / composeEnhancers( applyMiddleware(...middleware), // other store enhancers if any )); ``` Therere just few lines of code added to your bundle. In case you dont include other enhancers and middlewares, just use devToolsEnhancer: ```js import { createStore } from redux; import { devToolsEnhancer } from redux-devtools-extension; const store = createStore(reducer, / preloadedState, / devToolsEnhancer( // Specify name here, actionsBlacklist, actionsCreators and other options if needed )); ``` 1.4 Using in production Its useful to include the extension in production as well. Usually you can use it for development. If you want to restrict it there, use redux-devtools-extension/logOnlyInProduction: ```js import { createStore } from redux; import { devToolsEnhancer } from redux-devtools-extension/logOnlyInProduction; const store = createStore(reducer, / preloadedState, / devToolsEnhancer( // options like actionSanitizer, stateSanitizer )); or with middlewares and enhancers:js import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from redux; import { composeWithDevTools } from redux-devtools-extension/logOnlyInProduction; const composeEnhancers = composeWithDevTools({ // options like actionSanitizer, stateSanitizer }); const store = createStore(reducer, / preloadedState, / composeEnhancers( applyMiddleware(...middleware), // other store enhancers if any )); ``` Youll have to add process.env.NODE_ENV: JSON.stringify(production) in your Webpack config for the production bundle (to envify). If you use create-react-app, it already does it for you. If youre already checking process.env.NODE_ENV when creating the store, include redux-devtools-extension/logOnly for production enviroment. If you dont want to allow the extension in production, just use redux-devtools-extension/developmentOnly. See the article for more details. 1.5 For React Native, hybrid, desktop and server side Redux apps For React Native we can use react-native-debugger, which already included the same API with Redux DevTools Extension. For most platforms, include Remote Redux DevToolss store enhancer, and from the extensions context menu choose Open Remote DevTools for remote monitoring. 2. Without Redux See integrations and the blog post for more details on how to use the extension with any architecture. Docs Options (arguments) Methods (advanced API) Create Redux store for debugging. FAQ Troubleshooting Articles Videos Feedback Demo Live demos to use the extension with: Counter TodoMVC Redux Form React Tetris Book Collection (Angular ngrx store) Also see ./examples folder. Backers Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [Become a backer] Sponsors Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [Become a sponsor] License MIT Created By If you like this, follow @mdiordiev on twitter.