Zeal Zeal is a simple offline documentation browser inspired by Dash. Build Status | OS | Build Status | | -------- | ------------ | | Linux | | | Windows | | Download Get binary builds for Windows and Linux from the download page. How to use After installing Zeal, go to Tools->Docsets, select the ones you want, and click the Download button. How to compile Required dependencies CMake. Qt version 5.5.1 or above. Required module: Qt WebKit Widgets. libarchive. SQLite. X11 platforms only: Qt X11 Extras and xcb-util-keysyms. Building instructions sh mkdir build && cd build cmake .. make More detailed instructions are available in the Wiki. Query & Filter docsets You can limit the search scope by using : to indicate the desired docsets: java:BaseDAO You can also search multiple docsets separating them with a comma: python,django:string Command line If you prefer, you can start Zeal with a query from the command line: zeal python:pprint Creating your own docsets Follow the Dash Docset Generation Guide. Contact and Support We want your feedback! Heres a list of different ways to contact developers and request help: Report bugs and submit feature requests to GitHub issues. Reach developers and other Zeal users on Gitter, or IRC channel #zealdocs on Freenode. Ask any questions in our Google Group. You can simply send an email to zealdocs@googlegroups.com. Finally, for private communications email us at zeal@zealdocs.org. * And do not forget to follow @zealdocs on Twitter! License This software is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3 (GPLv3). Full text of the license is available in the COPYING file and online.