WARNING This master branch contains the v2.x codebase for ZeroClipboard! For the v1.x codebase, see the 1.x-master branch instead. ZeroClipboard The ZeroClipboard library provides an easy way to copy text to the clipboard using an invisible Adobe Flash movie and a JavaScript interface. The "Zero" signifies that the library is invisible and the user interface is left entirely up to you. This is achieved by automatically floating the invisible movie on top of a DOM element of your choice. Standard mouse events are even propagated out to your DOM element, so you can still have rollover and mousedown effects. Suggestions welcome read over the contributing guidelines. Setup To setup the project for local development start with these commands in your terminal. sh $ git clone https://github.com/zeroclipboard/zeroclipboard.git $ cd zeroclipboard/ $ npm install -g grunt-cli $ npm install $ grunt Development Before submitting a pull request youll need to validate, build, and test your code. Run the default grunt task in your terminal. sh $ grunt Testing If you just want to run the tests, run grunt test. sh $ grunt test Limitations User Interaction Required Due to browser and Flash security restrictions, this clipboard injection can ONLY occur when the user clicks on the invisible Flash movie. A simulated click event from JavaScript will not suffice as this would enable clipboard poisoning. Other Limitations For a complete list of limitations, see docs/instructions.md#limitations. On that page, you will also find an explanation of why ZeroClipboard will NOT work by default on code playground sites like JSFiddle, JSBin, and CodePen, as well as the appropriate "View" URLs to use on those sites in order to allow ZeroClipboard to work. Simple Example html <html> <body> <button id="copy-button" data-clipboard-text="Copy Me!" title="Click to copy me.">Copy to Clipboard</button> <script src="ZeroClipboard.js"></script> <script src="main.js"></script> </body> </html> ```js // main.js var client = new ZeroClipboard( document.getElementById("copy-button") ); client.on( "ready", function( readyEvent ) { // alert( "ZeroClipboard SWF is ready!" ); client.on( "aftercopy", function( event ) { // this === client // event.target === the element that was clicked event.target.style.display = "none"; alert("Copied text to clipboard: " + event.data["text/plain"] ); } ); } ); ``` See docs/instructions.md for more advanced options in using the library on your site. See docs/api/ZeroClipboard.md for the complete API documentation. Here is a working test page where you can try out ZeroClipboard in your browser. Testing ZeroClipboard Locally To test the page demo page locally, clone the website repo. Support This library is fully compatible with Flash Player 11.0.0 and above, which requires that the clipboard copy operation be initiated by a user click event inside the Flash movie. This is achieved by automatically floating the invisible movie on top of a DOM element of your choice. Standard mouse events are even propagated out to your DOM element, so you can still have rollover and mousedown effects with just a little extra effort. ZeroClipboard v2.x is expected to work in IE9+ and all of the evergreen browsers. Although support for IE7 & IE8 was officially dropped in v2.0.0, it was actually still technically supported through v2.0.2. Releases Starting with version 1.1.7, ZeroClipboard uses semantic versioning. see releases Related jquery.zeroclipboard zeroclipboard-rails License MIT © James M. Greene Jon Rohan