Foundation for Sites Foundation is the most advanced responsive front-end framework in the world. Quickly go from prototype to production, building sites or apps that work on any kind of device with Foundation. Includes a fully customizable, responsive grid, a large library of Sass mixins, commonly used JavaScript plugins, and full accessibility support. Getting Started The quickest way to get started is with the basic CSS download. You can get versions with every component, essential ones only, or a custom build. If youre a Sass user, we have two starter project templates, the Basic Template and the ZURB Template. You can install them by manually downloading them from GitHub, or using the Foundation CLI. Lastly, if youre rolling your own setup, you can install Foundation through a variety of package managers. Documentation The documentation can be found at https://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs. To run the documentation locally on your machine, you need Node.js installed on your computer. (Your Node.js version must be 4.0 or higher.) Run these commands to set up the documentation: bash git clone https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites cd foundation-sites npm install Then run npm start to compile the documentation. When it finishes, a new browser window will open pointing to a BrowserSync server displaying the documentation. Training Want the guided tour to Foundation from the team that built it? The ZURB team offers comprehensive training courses for developers of all skill levels. If youre new to Foundation, check out the Introduction to Foundation Course to kickstart your skills, amplify your productivity, and get a comprehensive overview of everything Foundation has to offer. More Advanced users should check out the Advanced Foundation Course to learn the Advanced skills that ZURB uses to deliver quality client work in short timeframes. Testing Foundation has three kinds of tests: JavaScript, Sass, and visual regression. Refer to our testing guide for more details. These commands will run the various tests: npm run test:sass npm run test:javascript:phantomjs npm run test:visual Testing Supported By Contributing Check out CONTRIBUTING.md to see how to report an issue or submit a bug fix or a new feature, and our contributing guide to learn how you can contribute more globally to Foundation. You can also browse the Help Wanted tag in our issue tracker to find things to do. Copyright (c) 2017 ZURB, inc.